The Project Gutenberg eBook of Marcus, by Walter Aimwell

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Marcus
       or, The Boy-Tamer

Author: Walter Aimwell

Release Date: April 29, 2022 [eBook #67950]

Language: English

Produced by: Richard Hulse, Barry Abrahamsen, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MARCUS ***



               New and Popular Series for Boys and Girls.

                          ────────────────────

                          THE AIMWELL STORIES;

         A SERIES OF VOLUMES, ILLUSTRATIVE OF YOUTHFUL CHARACTER,
                AND COMBINING INSTRUCTION WITH AMUSEMENT.

                            BY WALTER AIMWELL,


 Author of “The Boy’s Own Guide,” “Boy’s Book of Morals and Manners,” &c.

                      WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS.

                            ───────────────

The volumes contain about 300 pages, 16mo, each, bound in cloth, with
gilt backs. Price 63 cents.

☞ Each volume is complete and independent of itself, but the series will
be connected together by a partial identity of characters, localities,
&c.

The first five volumes of this series are now ready. They are entitled:

    OSCAR; or, the Boy who had his own Way.
    CLINTON; or, Boy-Life in the Country.
    ELLA; or, Turning over a New Leaf.
    WHISTLER; or, the Manly Boy.
    MARCUS; or, the Boy-Tamer. (Now Ready.)
    JESSIE; or, Trying to be Somebody. (Shortly)


                         NOTICES OF THE PRESS.

In the department of juvenile literature, the ‘Aimwell Stories’ have
fairly come to rival the ‘Rolla Books’ in the affections of the young
people. The author when he conceived the plan of the series, struck a
vein which he has since been working with rich and constantly increasing
success.—[Boston Transcript.

One of the best series for the young ever written. Every family of
children ought to have them.—[Chicago Congregational Herald.

They are written with great skill for the tastes and necessities
of children, and they are written conscientiously, with a moral
and Christian effort unobtrusively operative upon every
page.—[Congregationalist.

A better series of books for children were never written. The author has
studied deeply and accurately the feelings, hopes, and thoughts of
youth.—[Boston Mail.

The author of the ‘Aimwell Stories’ has a happy knack at combining
amusement and instruction. Under the guise of a story, he not only
teaches a moral lesson, which is or ought to be a leading object of
every tale for children, but he gives his readers instruction in
philosophy, geography, and various other sciences. So happily are these
introduced, however, that the youthful reader must learn in spite of
himself.—[Boston Journal.

It is the best series of juvenile books with which we are
acquainted.—[Northampton Gazette.

We have spoken repeatedly, and with unqualified commendation, of this
series of juvenile volumes. It would be difficult to exaggerate their
merits as a source of amusement and instruction to children.—[American
Patriot.


------------------------------------------------------------------------


                 NATIONAL SERIES OF AMERICAN HISTORIES.

                       =By Rev. Joseph Banvard.=

                          ────────────────────

PLYMOUTH AND THE PILGRIMS; or, Incidents of Adventures in the History of
  the First Settlers. With Illustrations. 16mo, cloth, 60 cts.

When once taken up it will not be laid down without regret until
finished.—_Courier._

An exceedingly interesting volume.—_Am. Traveller._

Popular reading, particularly adapted to entertain and instruct
youth.—_Mercantile Journal._

Every New Englander, wherever he resides, should own this
book.—_Scientific Am._

An extremely interesting volume, written in a plain but vigorous style,
adapted to the young, but will be read with interest by the older
ones.—_Ch. Freeman._

Highly attractive in style and instructive in matter.—_N. Y. Com. Adv._


NOVELTIES OF THE NEW WORLD; an Account of the Adventures and Discoveries
of the First Explorers of North America. With numerous Illustrations.
16mo, cloth, 60 cts.

A series of books which will serve as valuable introductions and
enticements to more extended historical reading.—_Am. Traveller._

It has all the interest of a romance.—_Portland Transcript._

We have seen the boys bend over these pages, unwilling to leave them,
either for play or sleep; and when finished, inquiring anxiously _when
the next_ would come.—_Watchman and Reflector._

Neither too childish for adults, nor yet too difficult of comprehension
for children. They will delight as well as instruct.—_Mercantile
Journal._

Interesting scenes and events in the New World are here brought together
and invested with a charm that is irresistible by old as well as
young.—_Ch. Intelligencer._


ROMANCE OF AMERICAN HISTORY; or, an Account of the Settlement of North
Carolina and Virginia, embracing the tragic Incidents connected with the
Spanish Settlements, French Colonies, English Plantation at Jamestown,
Captivity of Captain Smith, the Adventures of Pocahontas, etc. With
Illustrations. 60 cents.

All the interest of romance, and the addition of veritable
history.—_Puritan Rec._

It is a most pleasing and instructive book.—_Home Journal._

Interesting as a novel, and a thousand times more profitable
reading.—_Lit. Mes._

Every library should be furnished with this Series of American
Histories.—_N. E. Farmer._

Admirably fitted for family reading, and calculated to interest the
young.—_Trav._

Attractive series of books founded on the early history of our country;
it will make a most valuable addition to all family libraries.—_Arthur’s
Gazette._

No more interesting and instructive reading can be put into the hands of
youth.—_Portland Transcript._

The series will embrace the most interesting and important events which
have occurred in the United States since the settlement of the country.
Each volume to be complete in itself and yet, when all are published,
they will together form a regular SERIES OF AMERICAN HISTORIES.


------------------------------------------------------------------------


[Illustration:

  CHRISTMAS TREE.
  (See p. 268.)
]


------------------------------------------------------------------------


[Illustration:

  The Aimwell Stories
  By
  Walter Aimwell
  Gould & Lincoln
]


------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         +The Aimwell Stories.+

                          ────────────────────




                               +MARCUS+;


                                  OR,


                            +THE BOY-TAMER+.




                                   BY


                            WALTER AIMWELL,

         AUTHOR OF “WHISTLER,” “ELLA,” “CLINTON,” “OSCAR,” ETC.




                          WITH ILLUSTRATIONS.




                               +BOSTON+:
                          +GOULD AND LINCOLN+,
                         59 WASHINGTON STREET.
                   NEW YORK: SHELDON, BLAKEMAN & CO.
                    CINCINNATI: GEORGE S. BLANCHARD.
                                 1858.


------------------------------------------------------------------------






       Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1857, by

                          +GOULD AND LINCOLN,+

     In the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of the District of
                             Massachusetts.






                            ELECTROTYPED BY
                      W. F. DRAPER, ANDOVER, MASS.

                               PRINTED BY
                      GEO. C. RAND & AVERY BOSTON


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                PREFACE.

                             --------------


A LEADING aim of this little volume is to point out to elder brothers
and sisters some of the ways in which they may exert a happy influence
upon the younger members of the family. It also attempts, incidentally,
to set forth the idea, that the best system of government for a child is
that which trains him to govern himself. But while the author hopes his
pages will not be wholly unsuggestive to such parents and “children of a
larger growth” as may honor them with a perusal, he trusts there will
remain enough both of story and moral for his younger readers, for whom,
after all, MARCUS and the other volumes of this series are especially
intended.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             ADVERTISEMENT.

                             --------------

                “PRECEPTS MAY LEAD, BUT EXAMPLES DRAW.”

                             --------------


“THE AIMWELL STORIES” are designed to portray some of the leading phases
of juvenile character, and to point out their tendencies to future good
and evil. This they undertake to do by describing the quiet, natural
scenes and incidents of every-day life, in city and country, at home and
abroad, at school and upon the play-ground, rather than by resorting to
romantic adventures and startling effects. While their main object is to
persuade the young to try well the foundations of their characters, to
win them to the ways of virtue, and to incite them to good deeds and
noble aims, the attempt is also made to mingle amusing, curious, and
useful information with the moral lessons conveyed. It is hoped that the
volumes will thus be made attractive and agreeable, as well as
instructive, to the youthful reader.

Each volume of the “Aimwell Stories” will be complete and independent of
itself, although a connecting thread will run through the whole series.
The order of the volumes, so far as completed, is as follows:—


      I. OSCAR; OR, THE BOY WHO HAD HIS OWN WAY.
     II. CLINTON; OR, BOY-LIFE IN THE COUNTRY.
    III. ELLA; ON, TURNING OVER A NEW LEAF.
     IV. WHISTLER; OR, THE MANLY BOY.
      V. MARCUS; OR, THE BOY-TAMER.
     VI. JESSIE; OR, TRYING TO BE SOMEBODY. (_In preparation._)


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CONTENTS.


                                ────────


                               CHAPTER I.

                               THE PAGES.

                                                              PAGE.

     The stage coming—A sharp pair of eyes—Rover’s               19
       greeting—The two passengers—Warm
       greetings—Oscar—Ronald’s opinion of him—His judgment
       corrected—The farm—Capt. Page’s last voyage—How the
       farm was managed—The boarders—Ronald—His early
       orphanage—A temporary home—Marcus’s proposal—Its
       success—The little savage tamed—Oscar’s bearing—His
       good purposes—Difficulties—The secret—A lesson to
       learn—Oscar’s career,


                              CHAPTER II.

                             THE NEW-COMER.

     The lion of the day—Oscar’s plans—A few days’               32
       leisure—The flock of sheep—Other attractions—Willing
       idleness—The agreement in relation to Oscar—An
       inducement to industry—Oscar’s work laid out—Fair
       play enjoined—Lord of the woodshed—Volunteers—Keeping
       the pile good—Cutting hay and roots—Feeding the
       stock—Special pets—Taking care of the horses—Milking
       the cows—Sundry jobs—Studies—Play-time—Daily lessons,


                              CHAPTER III.

                           A BOY’S INFLUENCE.

     Kate and the boys—Indian ink prickings—Ear                  43
       boring—Smartings—Exhibiting the marks—Doing as other
       boys do—The beauty of Indian ink art—A relic of
       heathenism—Why the ancients marked themselves—No
       moral guilt incurred by the boys—Soap and water of no
       avail—What Oscar said—A doubtful star—Unsuspected
       listeners—Sam Hapley—His family—The mortgage—A sad
       change—Influence of large boys—Power of example—An
       illustration—A good purpose,


                              CHAPTER IV.

                            UP THE MOUNTAIN.

     An abandoned project—A party for Prescott’s                 55
       Peak—Anecdotes of Rover—Other knowing dogs—Ronald’s
       story—Was it a lie?—A cast-off snake’s skin—Black
       snakes—The pond—Mysterious operations—Setting the
       water afire—The experiment
       explained—Fire-damps—Steamboats engulfed in
       flames—The Mountain—Old Gooden—His adventure with a
       steel trap—How he lived—His family—The cabin—The
       spruce gum trade—A foolish habit—The top of the
       mountain—The view—A monument proposed—The stones—The
       pole—The descent—Something left behind—A generous and
       a mean spirit—Ronald’s return—Wearing veils—The
       reproof—The veil restored—Difficulties of the
       descent—The lost cap—“Tit for tat”—The cap
       reclaimed—Arrival home,


                               CHAPTER V.

                       THE BLOTTED WRITING-BOOK.

     A welcome announcement—Marcus as teacher—Favors             75
       solicited—Demonstrations of joy—A sudden
       change—Ronald’s explanation—The blotted
       writing-book—Punishment—Resistance and escape—An
       omitted particular—Assault and battery—How Marcus
       proposed to settle the matter—Mrs. Page’s
       misgivings—The case discussed—Nature of school
       government—An interview with the teacher—Her version
       of the affair—Ronald’s impudence—The writing-book
       examined—A discovery—The disgrace of expulsion—The
       teacher’s terms of settlement—Ronald rejects
       them—Motives urged—Unhappiness—The last resort—A
       motive that cannot be resisted—Going to
       school—Outside annoyances—The confession—The
       teacher’s response—Her confession—The unknown
       offender—Ronald subdued,


                              CHAPTER VI.

                            LETTER-WRITING.

     How Oscar discharged his duties—His lessons—Unanswered      92
       letters—A bad way—The day devoted to
       letter-writing—“Yes” and “No”—Why Marcus spoke of the
       subject—Wandering thoughts—A strange bird—A day
       dream—The proud conquest—A perilous descent—The prize
       secured—The dream ended—The
       newspaper—Scribbling—Apologies—The eagle becomes a
       hawk—Marcus astonished—Oscar’s excuses—A ride
       lost—Finds himself a prisoner—A light dinner—The task
       finished—A plan to encourage letter-writing—Kate’s
       achievements in that line—A domestic post office—The
       plan unfolded—A vote taken—Choosing a name—Rules
       adopted,


                              CHAPTER VII.

                            THE RAIN POWER.

     The letter-box—The first mail—The invitation—A storm       110
       predicted—The water boils away—The prediction
       fulfilled—Sorry mishaps—Fretfulness—Selfishness—The
       rain not needless—Quantity not excessive—A few
       calculations—Wonderful results—Annual fall of
       rain—Rainy regions—Little and often better than much
       and seldom—Object of the tropical rains—How the water
       forms clouds—Evaporation—Effects of heat—Why vapor
       rises—Visible vapors—Office of the winds—Why the rain
       falls—Snow and hail—Snow crystals—The Sahara—South
       American deserts—Poetry—Bryant’s “Rain Dream,”


                             CHAPTER VIII.

                            INSUBORDINATION.

     Marcus’s theory of government—How it worked with           131
       Oscar—Apprehended failure—A consultation—A forbidden
       intimacy—Tobacco—The letter—Ten arguments against
       tobacco, and one for it—An ineffectual
       remonstrance—Mrs. Page’s decision—Oscar plainly dealt
       with—His demeanor—The circus bill—The excitement
       suddenly allayed—Objections to the circus—Oscar’s
       opinion—A caution—Arrival of the circus—Oscar visits
       the grounds—Who he met there—The donkey race—Otis—A
       recognition—An unfortunate exposure—Alfred Walton—An
       offer—Oscar declines—Solicitations and motives—He is
       pressed into the tent—Late return home—Is called to
       account—Punishment—A prisoner on parole—Inviolability
       of the parole—The Turkish soldiers—Oscar’s
       promise—Repentings,


                              CHAPTER IX.

                            CORRESPONDENCE.

     The “Letter-writing Society”—A letter from Oscar to        151
       Marcus—An explanation—A secret trouble—A good
       purpose—Marcus to Oscar—The explanation examined—The
       blame not wholly removed—The
       secret—Self-government—The several steps—An
       illustration—How Mr. Ease is snubbed—The
       victory—Self-denial the law of life—Power of habit—A
       proposal from Otis—A criticism by Kate—The critic
       criticised—Advantage of not taking things upon
       trust—Kate convicted—An apology—Something about “the
       old maid”—One of her letters—The four dogs,


                               CHAPTER X.

                         A WOUNDED CONSCIENCE.

     Ellen Blake—A place wanted—A suggestion—Mrs. Page          163
       decides to take Ellen—The school prizes—Another
       blotted writing-book—Lewis Daniels—His singular
       conduct—The teacher’s suspicions—What she said to
       Lewis—His reply—Guilt betrayed—His confession—A
       singular reason for blotting his book—Another sin
       confessed—A mystery cleared up—Stings of
       conscience—Seeking peace by new sins—The teacher’s
       forgiveness—A duty to Ronald—A duty to
       God—Prayer—Lewis confesses his fault to Ronald—Anger
       checked—The penitent forgiven—The examination—Ronald
       takes two prizes,


                              CHAPTER XI.

                           INDOOR AMUSEMENTS.

     A disappointment—Amusements—The new                        174
       play—“Conglomeration”—A queer medley of words—The
       sentences read—Rare sport—The “Hay-Mow Debating
       Society”—Questions discussed—A riddle—A puzzle—Turk
       and Christian puzzle—A prolific word of seven
       letters—Angles—Oscar’s puzzle—Half of nine—The Arabs
       and their dinner—The carpenter’s dispute—Story of
       Audley, the miser—A hard bargain—Results of
       arithmetical progression—The figure 9—Its wonderful
       properties—Multiplying by 5—Magic Squares—Other
       diversions,


                              CHAPTER XII.

                             THE NEWSPAPER.

     How the newspaper originated—Its name—How it was           193
       managed—The first number—Disappointed
       correspondents—A surprise number—How it was got up—A
       transcript of the third number—Lines to Ronald—An
       exercise for scholars—Nothing insignificant—I
       can’t—To correspondents—News items—Small
       beginnings—Vanity, a fable—Rover’s communication—The
       snow—A cunning fellow—Gleanings,


                             CHAPTER XIII.

                              MASTER PAGE.

     The new satchel—Otis homesick—Ronald’s impatience—The      201
       academy commences—Incidents of the first day—Oscar a
       monitor—Why Otis and Ronald were not seated
       together—Lewis Daniels—The boy who didn’t care for
       Marcus—Ronald’s nickname—Jessie Hapley—Why she went
       to the academy—“Trying to be somebody”—Abby
       Leonard—Eating chalk and drinking vinegar—Mr. Upton’s
       sickness—Marcus principal _pro tem._—An alarming
       proposal—He accedes to it—His experience as
       principal—The troublesome boys—Marcus re-seats
       them—The snow image—Charlie Wilder—A statue in
       snow—What is required to make a statue—Drawing—A
       specimen by Charlie—His wish gratified—An anonymous
       note—Interdicted keys—Oscar at fault—The
       rebuke—Ronald’s mischievousness—Snapping nut
       shells—His punishment—His seat changed—An increase of
       lessons proposed—Required for his mental discipline,
       and to keep him out of mischief—Otis in school—A hard
       sum—What Marcus told Georgiana—Why the same direction
       would not answer for Otis—The difference in
       scholars—The stimulus of shame successfully applied


                              CHAPTER XIV.

                        THE TROUBLESOME SCHOLAR.

     Harrison Clark—A threat—His career—Assault upon his        222
       teacher—Trial and sentence—One good trait—Harrison’s
       mother—His conduct towards Marcus—Kindness
       repelled—Coughing—Objections to it—Can be
       controlled—Harrison’s impertinence—Bears in
       town—Preparations for a hunt—Warlike
       appearances—Going off at recess—Requests
       denied—Harrison’s flight—Ineffectual attempt to bring
       him back—The hunting party—Turkey Hill—Forming a
       ring—Testing the connection—The advance—Closing up
       the circle—Reports of muskets—The two bears—Dragging
       the trophies home—How they were disposed of—Harrison
       at school again—His coolness—Detained after
       school—How he enjoyed the hunt—Frankness—Marcus
       mildly points out Harrison’s misconduct—Two ways of
       meeting the evil—Severity and kindness—Failure of
       both—Candid admissions—Expulsion—Its evils—A talk
       about Harrison’s mother—A frank warning—The
       question—Subdued bearing—Harrison’s
       decision—Confession of his fault—His sincerity
       severely tested—The offence forgiven—The boy saved,


                              CHAPTER XV.

                              SAM HAPLEY.

     A neglected farm—Out of fuel—Going to the woods—The        242
       pipe and jug—Parting admonitions—A scene in the
       woods—Going home—Effects of the cider—Green wood and
       the rheumatism—The cows and their dinner—Benny
       absent—Sam’s assault upon him—His father’s
       anger—Origin of the trouble—A scuffle between Sam and
       his father—Sam bound and flogged—The
       outcry—Interference—Marcus intercedes—A rude
       repulse—Sam released—Marcus expostulates—He is
       silenced—Sam’s disappearance—Absent for a week—His
       return—His arrest—Searching for stolen property—It is
       found—A sad shock to Jessie—Her self-control—Growing
       recklessness of Mr. Hapley—A visit to Sam—His
       confession—His flight—Adventures on the road—Mack,
       the thief—Housebreaking—The alarm—Sam’s escape—Mack
       caught—How Sam was tracked—Preparations for the
       trial—What the judge thought of the case—The
       sentence,


                              CHAPTER XVI.

                        MERRY DAYS AND SAD ONES.

     A merry Christmas—Who got the start?—Presents for          263
       Oscar—Letters—Loss of the brig “Susan”—Jerry
       missing—The Christmas festival—Declamations and
       dialogues—Tableaux and music—The Christmas tree—Its
       fruit—Santa Claus—His speech—Gathering the
       fruit—Refreshments—New Year’s morning—Sad news from
       Benny Hapley—Marcus his Sabbath school teacher—His
       interest in Benny—His sadness—A pleasant surprise—A
       present from Harrison—His gratitude—A visit to
       Benny—His prediction—Anticipations of heaven—Mr.
       Hapley’s agony—His promise to Benny—Benny’s
       coldness—Growing dark—A mysterious light—Parting
       kisses—One for Sam—The spirit takes its
       flight—Effects of the scene upon Marcus—His new
       purposes,


                             CHAPTER XVII.

                               ADVERSITY.

     Mr. Hapley signs the pledge—Empties his liquors—A          280
       desperate struggle—Opinions of the neighbors—Mr.
       Todd’s prediction—How it was treated—What Mr. Todd
       was supposed to be after—Uncharitableness—Difficulty
       of acquiring self-government in mature life—Mazeppa
       and the wild horse—Mr. Hapley’s relapse—Loss of
       self-confidence and self-respect—A visit to the
       rum-shop—His prolonged absence—A terrible snow
       storm—Henry despatched for Marcus—Marcus goes in
       search of Mr. Hapley—The search abandoned—Morning—The
       frozen horse and rider—The snow
       grave—Poverty—Jessie’s trials—The administrator’s
       advice—Jessie’s plans—Her self-sacrificing
       spirit—Words of comfort—Henry’s brave words—He finds
       a new home—Jessie provided for—Mrs. Hapley returns to
       her father’s,


                             CHAPTER XVIII.

                             THE DIALOGUE.

     Rivalry among the academy students—The motto on the        294
       blackboard—Praiseworthy motives—The student’s true
       motive—Ronald’s request—The plan for a dialogue—How
       Marcus proposed to help Ronald—The work
       completed—Dialogue of “Head and Foot”—Speech of John
       Head—A severe examination—How the boys were put
       through their paces—One pace not exhibited—An
       explosion—What is Congressional usage—The
       prizes—Their unequal distribution—How the boys
       proposed to equalize matters—John’s prize
       volume—Master Foot called up—The complimentary
       address—The presentation—Dinner-pot
       suggestions—Curious resemblances—Foot doubts his
       claim to the testimonial—A bet—Head smells a rat, but
       concludes not to back out—The cabbage fastened upon
       him—The wager won—Master Foot’s generosity—Master
       Head’s magnanimous response—The treat—View of the
       testimonial,


                              CHAPTER XIX.

                           CLOSE OF THE TERM.

     Oscar’s disappointment—No letter from home—An agreeable    308
       surprise—A successful examination—The exhibition—The
       prizes—The surprise party—Presentation to Mr.
       Upton—The “Academy Offering”—Its history—Mr. Upton’s
       acceptance of the gift—Another surprise—The
       writing-desk—Harrison’s address to Marcus—The reply—A
       secret well kept—Gratitude of Oscar’s parents—The
       inscription in Oscar’s prize volume,


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             Illustrations.


                                ────────


           THE CHRISTMAS TREE,                 FRONTISPIECE.
           VIGNETTE,                             TITLE PAGE.
           THE SHEEP,                                     34
           AN ORNAMENTED FACE,                            47
           THE BLACK SNAKE,                               59
           THE MOUNTAIN CABIN,                            65
           THE EAGLE’S NEST,                              98
           SNOW CRYSTALS,                                125
           DONKEY RACE,                                  141
           MAKING FOUR DOGS OUT OF TWO,                  162
           ANGLES,                                       182
           THE GARDEN PUZZLE (two Figures),              183
           RONALD’S SATCHEL,                             201
           THE STAG AND DOG,                             214
           MR. HAPLEY AND HIS FRIEND,                    244
           THE BURGLARS,                                 258
           MAZEPPA ON THE WILD HORSE,                    283
           THE TESTIMONIAL,                              307


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              =+MARCUS+.=




                         ---------------------




                               CHAPTER I.

                               THE PAGES.


“THERE’S the stage, mother! It’s coming round the Bend,—don’t you hear
it? Hark! how near it sounds! I shall see it in a minute. There it is,
now! And there’s somebody on the top with Mr. Peters;—yes, there are two
or three persons. I’ll bet Marcus and Oscar are there; don’t you believe
they are? I’d ride outside, if I were they; wouldn’t you, mother?”

“You had better not be too jubilant, Ronald,” calmly replied the lady
addressed. “Have you forgotten how disappointed you were last night?”

“O, well, it isn’t likely they will disappoint us again,” replied the
boy. “I _know_ they will come, this time, just as well as I want to.
See! that’s Marcus himself—I know him by his straw hat, and his brown
linen sack that he wore to keep the dust off his clothes. And that boy
by the side of him is Cousin Oscar, isn’t it? Look! isn’t that Oscar,
Aunt Fanny?”

Aunt Fanny looked towards the stage-coach, still nearly a quarter of a
mile distant; but her eyes were not sharp enough to distinguish the
countenance of any one upon it, and she could not relieve the impatient
boy from his suspense.

“I wonder what he looks like, any way,” resumed Ronald. “I can tell,
just as soon as I see him, whether I shall like him or not. Why, I
should think he was as big as Sam Hapley. He looks a little like him,
too, from here, doesn’t he, mother?”

“I can’t tell; he is hardly within the range of my vision, yet,” replied
Mrs. Page.

“Now Marcus is pointing this way,” continued Ronald. “I’ll bet he sees
me, and is telling Oscar who I am. Why, mother, can’t you see them now?
I can almost hear them talk.”

“Yes, that is Marcus, and there is Oscar, too,” said Aunt Fanny, after
gazing a few moments at the approaching coach.

“Didn’t I tell you so!” exclaimed Ronald, rubbing his hands with glee,
and dancing on the green sward around the door. “Speak to them, Rover!”
he added, calling to a handsome spaniel that lay in the middle of the
road, beneath the shade of a tree.

The dog sprang to meet the stage-coach, which was now within a few rods
of the house; and, recognizing his master, he frisked around the horses,
and manifested his satisfaction by a variety of significant signs.

Mr. Peters, the driver, reined up his horses at the farm house, and a
young man, about eighteen years of age, jumped off, followed by a lad
some three years younger. The first of these was Marcus Page, and this
was his home, from which he had been absent about ten days, on a visit
to Boston, and other places in Massachusetts. The other passenger was
his cousin, Oscar Prestor, whose parents resided in Boston, but who had
come to live with the family for a season. He appeared a little
embarrassed, as he extended his hand to his two aunts, Mrs. Page, and
her maiden sister, Miss Lee; but the cordial welcome which they extended
to him, instantly put him at his ease. Meanwhile, little Ronald was
gazing earnestly at the new-comer, evidently settling in his mind the
important question which was to be decided at first sight, when Marcus
said—

“Here, Oscar, let me make you acquainted with Master Ronald, my
_protégé_. Ronald, this is Cousin Oscar. You will soon be good friends,
if I am not greatly mistaken.”

The boys shook hands, and then Ronald, proffering his services, helped
Oscar to carry his trunk into the house. By the time the travellers had
removed the dust from their persons and clothing, supper was ready, and
the family sat down to the table. Much of the conversation, during the
meal, was addressed to Oscar, and many inquiries were made concerning
his parents, sisters, and brothers. He sustained his part with the ease
and freedom of one who is accustomed to society, his first shyness
having quite disappeared. Ronald watched him with much interest, and
seemed still in doubt whether to like him or not. After tea, when Oscar
had gone out with Marcus to the barn, Miss Lee, remembering Ronald’s
remark, inquired—

“Well, Ronald, what do you think of Oscar?”

“I think he feels pretty smart; and I never saw a city chap but what
did,” replied Ronald.

“Why, what makes you think so?” inquired Miss Lee.

“I don’t know—I can’t tell,” said the boy, hesitatingly.

“But if you do really think so, you ought to be able to give a reason
for it,” added Miss Lee.

“Well,” continued Ronald, “I suppose it’s because he speaks up so smart,
and eats so genteelly, and wears such nice clothes, and—and is so
good-looking,” he added, laughing at the idea.

“I think you are mistaken in him,” replied Miss Lee. “His dress is such
as boys in the city, of his age and class, usually wear; and his manners
are those of a boy who is familiar with good society. Perhaps he is a
trifle too forward, for one of his age,—I think a little bashfulness
becomes a boy, sometimes; but I never saw anything like pride in him. He
has been about the world a good deal, for one so young, and that, I
suppose, has worn off his bashfulness.”

“Then I guess I shall like him, if he isn’t proud,” said Ronald, and
away he ran, to join Marcus and Oscar, who were taking a general survey
of the farm.

Mrs. Page’s farm is situated in one of the pleasant mountain towns in
Vermont, which, if it does not bear the name of Highburg on the map,
will not, we trust, resent the act, if we venture to give it that
designation, in this volume. It is located at the foot and on the sides
of the Green Mountains, and within sight of one of their highest peaks,
the Camel’s Hump. Mr. Page was a sea captain, who, thinking it more
pleasant to plough the land than the wave, purchased this farm in his
native State, intending to make it his residence. When the new house and
barns were completed, and the farm stocked with herds and flocks, and
everything ready for occupancy, Capt. Page found that his money was all
spent. Not having confidence enough in his agricultural skill to enter
upon his new sphere of life without something in hand for an emergency,
he determined to make one more voyage before he abandoned the sea. So he
engaged a man to manage the farm during his absence, and, removing Mrs.
Page and Marcus to their new home, he sailed on a whaling cruise,
expecting to be gone about three years. It proved his last voyage in a
sadder sense than he intended, for he never returned from it. Three,
five, ten years passed away, but the missing ship was never heard from,
and the owner of the farm never came back to enjoy the pleasant home he
had prepared for himself. Mr. Burr, whom Capt. Page employed to oversee
the farm, had managed its out-door affairs during all this period,
although Marcus, within a few years, had taken a good share of the
burden upon himself. During the winter months, indeed, Marcus now
undertook the whole management of the farm. At this time the stock
consisted of two horses, six or eight head of cattle, about seventy-five
sheep, and a quantity of poultry.

When Oscar returned to the house, he found a boy and girl seated at the
supper table, who were introduced to them as Katharine and Otis
Sedgwick. They were brother and sister, and were pupils of the village
academy, a mile or more distant. Katharine was about fourteen years old,
and Otis some two years younger. They boarded at Mrs. Page’s, and, with
the persons already named, constituted the entire family.

Ronald, who called Mrs. Page mother, was a boy about twelve years old,
whom she had undertaken to bring up. His parents were French Canadians,
who had emigrated to the vicinity of Highburg, where they both died
within a short time, leaving the poor child without friends or money. He
was then about eight years old. Some of the kind people of the town
wished to prevent his becoming a pauper, and tried to find a home for
him; but, although he was a bright and interesting child, he could not
speak English very plain, and was, moreover, very strange and wild in
his manners and appearance, so that no one was willing to take him.
Pitying his friendless lot, Mrs. Page at length offered to keep him a
few weeks, till other arrangements could be made in his behalf. A month
sped by, and no door opened for the little orphan but that of the
poor-house. Wild, ignorant, unused to restraints, full of mischief,
incapable of speaking or understanding the language of the family, and,
in fact, almost as uncivilized as an Indian child, Mrs. Page found the
new care a burden too great, and concluded that she must give up her
charge to the town authorities.

When Marcus heard of this decision, he felt very badly. There was
something about the little stranger, and his pitiable condition, that
won upon his heart. So he put in a plea with his mother and Aunt Fanny
in his behalf, and by way of further inducement, volunteered his own
assistance in educating and training the child! Such an offer, from a
boy who had but just passed his fourteenth birth-day, might provoke a
smile from some people, and very properly, too. But neither Mrs. Page
nor her sister thought of laughing at the suggestion. Marcus was not
only a good scholar and a good boy, but he was more manly and mature,
both in mind and body, than many youth of his age. As Ronald was more
than six years his junior, it seemed plausible that Marcus might assist
very much in making a man of him, and thus relieve his mother of a
portion of the care. It was decided to try the experiment, and the
result was so successful, that Mr. Upton, the principal of the academy,
gave Marcus the title of “The Boy-Tamer.” The boys soon became greatly
attached to each other, and Marcus, by his example, influence and
teachings, assisted very much in reclaiming the little savage. After a
year or two, he was able to take upon himself almost the entire
management of Ronald, directing his studies, imposing upon him his daily
tasks about the farm, and generally exercising over him the authority
and discipline of a father. Ronald, indeed, used sometimes to speak of
him sportively as his “adopted father,” and no doubt he seemed somewhat
like a parent to the fatherless boy. His name, originally, was Ronald
Doucette; but his new friends had given him their own name of Page,
retaining Doucette as a middle name.

“How do you think Oscar appears, mother?” inquired Marcus, as soon as
the withdrawal of the young folks to their bed-rooms left him alone with
his mother and aunt.

“Very well,” replied Mrs. Page. “He is a boy that can make a good
appearance, if he chooses to. How does he seem pleased with his new
home?”

“He doesn’t say much about it,” replied Marcus. “But he said, before we
left Boston, that he was determined to be contented, whether or no. He
is glad enough to come here, and I think he means to behave well. I told
him this was probably his last chance, and that if he did not do well
here, he would have to go back to the Reform School, and serve his full
sentence out. But I don’t think we shall have much trouble with him. He
has behaved well in the institution, and he says he is determined to
reform.”

“And yet I am afraid he will find more difficulties in the way than he
imagines,” interposed Mrs. Page.

“But the difficulties here are nothing to what they would be in the
city,” added Marcus. “Nobody need know anything about his past life,
here, and besides, he will be out of the way of his old associates and
temptations.”

“I think we ought to be very careful,” said Aunt Fanny, “never to say
anything about his past bad conduct, even to him. Nothing would
discourage him so much as to have it known here that he had been a bad
boy.”

“I told him,” replied Marcus, “that nobody here but we three knew
anything about that,—not even Ronald; and I promised that it should be
kept a secret, so long as he behaved well. He seemed very glad to hear
it.”

“He certainly has a favorable opportunity to make a new start in life,
and I hope he will improve it,” said Mrs. Page.

“We shall have to take a little time to study his character, before we
can tell exactly how to manage him,” continued Marcus. “I found out
everything I could about him from his mother, and I think I begin to
understand his disposition. The great lesson he has got to learn, is, to
govern himself. Now that he has found, by experience, that if he does
not put himself under restraint, others will do it for him, I think he
is in a good state to learn this lesson.”

The subject of these remarks was at this time between fifteen and
sixteen years of age. He had been a headstrong, wayward boy, and had
given his parents much pain. At one time, they sent him to live with an
uncle in the village of Brookdale, in Maine, for the purpose of getting
him away from his evil associates; but while there, he set fire to a
large quantity of cut wood, which was destroyed, and was in consequence
sent to jail, from which he was released only on his father’s promise to
remove him from the State. He was then sent on a short voyage to sea,
but came back worse than before. His next downward step was to join a
band of juvenile thieves; but his course was shortly afterward checked
by his arrest, trial, and sentence to the Reform School during his
minority,—that is, until he should be twenty-one years old. After he had
remained in this institution about four months, his conduct having been
good, and Mrs. Page, at the solicitation of Marcus, having offered to
receive him into her family and endeavor to reform him, he was released
by the officers, and given over to the care of his aunt and cousin; and
his appearance in Highburg, at this time, was in accordance with this
arrangement.[1]

Footnote 1:

  The character and career of Oscar are more fully set forth in the
  first two volumes of this series, namely, “Oscar,” and “Clinton.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER II.

                             THE NEW-COMER.


THE new-comer, Oscar, was very naturally the recipient of much
attention, for a few days after his arrival. The advent of such a big
boy in the family was an event of no trifling importance, in the eyes of
the younger members of the household. Was he not a real Boston boy, and
had he not seen so much of city life that, in his own language, he was
sick of it? Had he not also resided for months together in two or three
other towns, far away from his home? And, most strange of all, had he
not actually made a voyage to the West Indies, in the capacity of
sailor-boy? So, at least, it was currently reported, and so they all
believed; and surely a boy who had seen so much of the world must be
something of a hero, they reasoned. Meanwhile, the older members of the
family were quietly watching their new charge, studying his disposition,
gaining insight into the secret springs of his character, and taking the
measure of his mental acquirements and capacities.

Oscar was expecting to attend the academy, during the coming winter; but
as it was now well advanced in the autumn term, he was to study at home
until the new term commenced, about two months from this time, it being
now the latter part of September. Marcus had graduated at this academy,
a year previous, and had been invited to serve as assistant teacher, the
coming winter.

“What shall _I_ do?” inquired Oscar, the morning after his arrival, as
he perceived that all the family were busily at work.

“You need not do anything, just yet,” replied his aunt. “You can look on
and see us work, through the rest of this week, or amuse yourself in any
way you please. By next Monday we will find something for you to do, and
you can commence your studies, too, at the same time.”

[Illustration]

The few days of leisure thus granted to Oscar did not hang very heavily
upon his hands. He found many things to interest and amuse him, about
the farm. The greatest novelty to him, however, were the sheep, for he
had never before lived where these pretty creatures formed a part of the
farm stock. The pasture where they were kept became at once an
attractive place, and it must be confessed that the groups of sheep and
lambs, quietly nibbling the grass, or reclining at their ease in the
beams of the morning sun, formed as beautiful a scene as could be found
upon the farm. The cattle, horses, pigs and poultry, the capacious
barns, with the deep and lofty hay-mows, the dairy, granary, tool-house
and wood-house,—these, also, though more familiar objects to Oscar, were
not without their attractions for him; while he found a still further
source of amusement in accompanying Marcus and Ronald, as they went
about their daily duties on the farm.

Marcus was a little sorry to notice that Oscar did not appear to find
idleness very irksome, nor to feel much anxiety about making himself
useful. He seemed to think he had received a full discharge from labor
for the rest of the week, and gave himself no more concern about it than
though he was merely a boarder, like Katie and Otis, with whom he spent
a good portion of his time. There were many little things in which his
assistance, cheerfully offered, would have been accepted with pleasure;
but we are sorry to say that these evidences of a “willing mind” were
entirely wanting.

And yet Oscar went to Highburg with the determination of breaking up his
old habits of idleness, and the terms upon which he was received into
the family, had been arranged with this end in view. He was to remain
here not less than two years. His father insisted upon paying for his
board, clothing and schooling, during his residence here; but as one
great object of the plan was to teach him to be industrious and useful,
it was stipulated that he should do his share of the work on the farm,
at all seasons of the year. It was further agreed that a fair sum should
be allowed him for his services, to be paid to his father at the end of
each year. If Oscar’s conduct was satisfactory, this amount was to be
paid over to him, when he reached the age of twenty-one. He thus had a
real inducement to labor, in addition to the earnest entreaties of his
parents; and lest both of these motives should prove insufficient,
Marcus and his mother were authorized, as a last resort, to _enforce_
the fulfilment of Oscar’s part of the contract, by any means they saw
fit to employ. His parents well knew that he could not be effectually
reformed, until he had acquired habits of industry.

Nothing more was said to Oscar about work, until Saturday afternoon,
when Marcus, finding the boys engaged in pitching jack-knives on the
barn floor, accosted his cousin as follows:

“I suppose, Oscar, that you begin to feel as though you would like
something to do?”

“Why, yes, I am almost tired of doing nothing,” replied Oscar, shutting
up his knife, and putting it in his pocket.

“Well, I can tell you something about your work and studies, now, if you
wish,” continued Marcus. “A good deal of your work, for awhile, will
consist of odd jobs, which I cannot tell you about until they come
along. For the present you must be ready for anything, in an emergency;
we will be able, by and by, to systematize the work a little better, so
that you needn’t rob Ronald or me of our shares.”

“No danger of that, I guess!” said Oscar, with a laugh.

“I don’t know about that,” continued Marcus. “We don’t have a very great
amount of out-door work in the fall and winter, and with three pairs of
hands to divide it amongst, I’m afraid we may not all get our share, if
we don’t have an understanding about it. There’s one department,
however, that you shall have the sole charge of. Come this way.”

He led the way to the wood-house, followed by the boys, and added:—

“There, Oscar, you shall be lord of the woodshed; and if any body
meddles with the saw, axe, chips, or wood-pile, without your leave, just
let me know it. Only you must understand that if I should want to chop a
stick occasionally, by way of exercise, I shall have the liberty to do
it.”

“Oh yes, I’ll agree to that,” replied Oscar.

“And I too—I like to split wood once in a while,” interposed Otis.

“And so do I,” added Ronald.

“No, no, boys, you are not to touch anything here without Oscar’s
leave,” said Marcus. “He is to be captain here, so you had better stand
round. You see, Oscar, there is a large pile ready for use, now. My rule
is, to saw and split a little more every week than we use, so as to have
a good supply ahead, when cold weather sets in. I think you had better
keep on in the same way, and make it a business, every day, or at least
every other day, to add a little to the pile. It will also be a part of
your work to see that a supply of wood is carried into the house every
day.”

“I’ll help carry the wood in,” said Ronald.

“But I told you not to interfere with his business,” replied Marcus.

“Well, if he doesn’t like it, then I wont do it,” rejoined Ronald,
laughing.

“As to the other work,” resumed Marcus, “I shall want you to help cut up
the hay, for one thing.”

“I know how to do that,” said Oscar.

“There will be a good deal of hay to cut, by and by, when the horses,
cattle and sheep are all put up in the barn. And roots, too—we shall
soon begin to feed them out, and they will have to be cut.”

“I know how to do that, too,” added Oscar.

“You can help about feeding the animals, too. I think I shall let you
have the whole care of the pigs, to begin with, after a day or two. You
will find them very interesting pets—especially the old sow!” he added,
with a laugh.

“I might feed the horses,” suggested Oscar, whose fancy for hogs was not
very largely developed.

“So you can, and I want you to learn to bed them, and clean them out,
and rub them down, too.”

“I know how to do all that—I used to do it down to Brookdale, very
often,” replied Oscar.

“And I should like to have you help about milking; do you understand
that?” inquired Marcus.

“I know a little about it, but I never liked it very well,” replied
Oscar, with some hesitation.

“O, well, I dare say you will like it better after you get used to it,”
said Marcus. “But if you shouldn’t, it wont make much difference. We all
have to do some jobs that are not so pleasant as others.”

“I _like_ to milk—only it tires my wrists,” said Ronald. “I can milk one
cow, all alone, but Marcus wont let me, very often.”

“Next week,” continued Marcus, “we must gather our apples, and you can
help us about that. Then there will be the carrots, beets, turnips and
cabbages to get in, the seed-corn to harvest, corn to husk, snow to
shovel, wood to haul, and various other jobs to do, through the winter.
Do you think you can do your share of all this?”

“I’ll try to,” replied Oscar.

“Then there are your studies to be attended to,” resumed Marcus. “I
shall make out a list of them, for each day in the week, while you study
at home. And you must have some time for play, in addition to all the
rest, for ‘all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.’ The first thing,
every day, will be to attend to your regular morning’s work. Then, if
there are any errands or extra jobs to be done, they will come next in
order. After that, you will get your lessons, and then will come the
play-time.”

“How much time will he have for play?” inquired Otis.

“That will depend very much upon his diligence in doing his work and
getting his lessons,” replied Marcus.

“I shan’t want much play-time,” said Oscar, with a significant glance
towards the couple of twelve-year-old urchins, who were evidently
counting upon his companionship in their sports.

“So much the better,” replied Marcus with perfect indifference,
although, in his mind, he had some doubts about the last assertion.

Marcus had previously examined Oscar in his studies, and, in the course
of the afternoon, he gave him lessons for the coming Monday, and also
handed him a written list of studies for each day in the week. The list
is as follows:—


                  ORDER OF STUDIES FOR OSCAR PRESTON.

                               ON MONDAY.

                                Writing,
                                Grammar,
                              Arithmetic.


                              ON TUESDAY.

                                Grammar,
                               Geography,
                              Arithmetic.


                             ON WEDNESDAY.

                                Writing,
                                Grammar.


                              ON THURSDAY.

                                Writing,
                               Geography,
                                Grammar.


                               ON FRIDAY.

                               Geography,
                              Arithmetic,
                                Writing.


                              ON SATURDAY.

                              Arithmetic,
                              Composition.

                 Reading, Spelling and Defining, daily.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER III.

                           A BOY’S INFLUENCE.


“YOU silly boys! what are you doing?” exclaimed Kate, one afternoon, as
she found her brother and Ronald seated on a log behind the barn, busily
engaged in pricking Indian ink into their hands, with needles.

“You go away; we don’t want you here,” replied Otis, with rudeness,
still pricking away with his needle, while the red and blue—the blood
and ink—mingled and covered the spot upon which he was at work.

“There! it hurts, I know it does,” said Kate, as her brother contracted
his brows, and drew in his breath. “What ninnies you are to torture
yourselves in that way, just for the sake of having some nasty ink
pricked into your skin, where you never can get it out again!”

“I don’t believe it hurts any more than having your ears bored; do you,
Otis?” observed Ronald, remembering that Kate had lately submitted to
the last-named operation.

“No; and ’tisn’t any more foolish, either,” replied Otis.

“Why, how absurd!” exclaimed Kate. “Ladies have to get their ears bored,
to wear ear-rings, and besides, it doesn’t hurt hardly any to bore them.
I’m sure there’s no comparison between the two things.”

She did not stop to hear what answer might be made to this remark, and
perhaps it was well that she did not.

“It _does_ hurt, though!” exclaimed Otis, as soon as his sister was out
of hearing. “O, doesn’t it smart! Come, let’s stop, now, and finish it
some other time.”

“No, I’ve got mine almost done, and I’m going to finish it now,” replied
Ronald, who was possessed of more endurance than his comrade.

Ronald persevered, and in a few minutes, wiping off the blood and ink, a
rude resemblance to a star appeared in the red, inflamed flesh, between
his thumb and forefinger. He seemed quite proud of the achievement, and
going into the house, and extending his hand to Miss Lee, he accosted
her with—

“See there, Aunt Fanny!”

“And see that, too!” said Otis, exhibiting his mark. “Mine isn’t done
yet, you see. It was so sore I had to stop, but I’m going to finish it
some other time.”

“What put it into your heads to do that?” inquired Miss Lee.

“O, nothing,—only the other boys do it,” replied Ronald.

“Didn’t you ever see Oscar’s anchor?” inquired Otis.

“No, I didn’t know he had an anchor,” replied Miss Lee.

“He _has_ got a real handsome anchor on his arm, pricked in with Indian
ink,” continued Otis.

“He made it when he was at sea,—and he has got a star like mine on his
hand,” said Ronald.

“I have noticed the star,” said Miss Lee; “but what is the use of your
marking yourselves in that way? What do you do it for?”

“Why, it looks handsome,” replied Ronald, with some hesitation.

“I don’t think so—those black marks look ugly, to me,” replied Miss Lee;
“besides, you never can wash them out.”

“Why, that’s the beauty of it, Aunt Fanny,” replied Ronald, with one of
his roguish looks. “There wouldn’t be any fun in it if it washed out.”

“Perhaps you will think differently, some time or other,” said Miss Lee.

“But what hurt does it do?” inquired Otis.

“I don’t know that it does any harm,” replied Miss Lee; “but it always
seemed to me like a heathenish practice. Did you know that the old
pagans used to mark themselves in that way, in honor of their idols?”

“What, did they prick Indian ink into their hands, as we do?” inquired
Ronald.

“Sometimes they pricked the marks in,” replied Miss Lee, “and sometimes
they burnt and cut them into the flesh. If a man devoted himself to
Jupiter, he marked himself with a thunderbolt, on the palm of his hand,
or his wrist, or neck, or upon some other part of his body. If he chose
Mars for his god, then the mark was a helmet or spear. Soldiers and
slaves used sometimes to be marked in the same way, to show to what
commander, or to what master, they belonged. Some tribes of savages, at
the present day, are very fond of such ornaments, and tattoo their faces
all over, by pricking dyes into their skins. There are several allusions
to this custom in the Bible, and the Jews were forbidden to practise
it.”

[Illustration]

“It’s wicked, then, to make such marks, isn’t it?” inquired Otis.

“No,” replied Miss Lee, “so long as you do not make them in honor of any
false god, nor with any bad motive, there is no sin in the act. The
worst that can be said about it is, that it is a foolish custom, and a
relic of paganism and superstition.”

“I’m going to see if I can’t wash mine out, before it dries in,” said
Ronald, and he hurried off to the pump, followed by Otis.

For a few minutes the boys worked as hard to rub out their new ornaments
as they had labored, a little while before, to imprint them upon their
hands. But water, soap, and even sand, were all in vain. The stars shone
as brightly at the end as at the beginning of the effort. While thus
engaged, Oscar came along, and, on seeing what the boys were about,
indulged in a hearty laugh.

“Why, you little fools!” he exclaimed, “what are you trying to wash the
ink out for?”

“Because we don’t want it in,” replied Ronald.

“What did you prick it in for, then?” continued Oscar.

“Because we didn’t know any better, then,” said Ronald; “but Aunt Fanny
says the heathen prick ink into their hands, and I don’t want to be a
heathen.”

“Well, if that isn’t a great idea!” exclaimed Oscar, relapsing into
another hearty laugh. “I suppose you think I’m a heathen, then, don’t
you?” he continued. “Well, if I’m a heathen, I guess there are a good
many others around full as bad. I never heard any body say there was any
harm in pricking a little Indian ink into your hand, and I don’t believe
there is, if Aunt Fanny does say so.”

“She didn’t say there was any harm in it,” replied Ronald. “She said she
didn’t like it, because it was doing as the heathen did.”

“So we ‘do as the heathen do’ when we eat, but I shan’t give up eating
on that account,” observed Oscar.

“Nor I, either,” said Otis, who was very willing to be re-converted to
the tattooing process. “I mean to finish my star—what’s the use of
trying to wash it out?”

“Star! do you call that thing a star?” inquired Oscar, with a look of
contempt.

“But I haven’t finished it,” meekly interposed Otis.

“No, I shouldn’t think you had,” added Oscar. “It looks more like a
spider than a star. If I couldn’t make a better star than that with my
eyes shut, I’d put my head under a bushel basket.”

With this self-sufficient remark, Oscar walked off, and Ronald and Otis,
having come to the conclusion that their stars were beyond the reach of
soap and sand, also left the room. It happened that Mrs. Page and Miss
Lee were sitting in an adjoining room, and overheard the conversation
just related.

One afternoon, some time after this occurrence, as Oscar was sitting
with his Aunt Fanny, in her chamber, studying his lessons, a boy of
about his age came along, with a gun on his shoulder, and seeing Oscar
at the open window, called him, in a low voice—

“Come, Oscar; want to go over to Prescott’s?”

“No, I can’t go; I’ve got my lessons to learn,” replied Oscar.

“How long before you’ll be done?” inquired the boy, whose name was
Samuel Hapley, and who lived near by.

“It will take me nearly all the afternoon, I suppose,” replied Oscar.

“Then I’m off,” said the boy, resuming his course.

Oscar watched him somewhat wishfully for a minute or two, as he directed
his course through the fields, and then turned to his books. Sam Hapley
was the only boy near his own age in that part of the town; and it also
happened that he was the only boy in Highburg he had been cautioned
against. His aunts and Marcus knew that he could not well avoid forming
an acquaintance with Sam, and they did not forbid this; but they
earnestly advised Oscar to associate with him as little as possible, and
to beware of his evil influence. Sam’s father was intemperate. His
mother was sickly, discouraged and disconsolate. The children, of whom
Sam was the oldest, were neglected, their father being cross and severe
with all of them except the youngest, and their mother always attempting
to shield them from his displeasure, even when they had done wrong. The
farm wore an air of thriftlessness, and, to crown their misfortunes, it
was covered with mortgages.[2]

Footnote 2:

  A mortgage is a pledge of property by a debtor to a creditor to secure
  a debt. For instance, a man who owns a farm wishes to borrow a
  thousand dollars, and to secure the lender from loss, he pledges his
  farm to him. The farm is then said to be mortgaged. The borrower
  cannot dispose of it, and the lender is, in effect, its real owner, to
  the amount of his claim, until that claim is paid. If it should not be
  paid when due, the lender, or mortgagee, as he is called, may sell the
  farm, after a certain time, and thus get his money back. When an
  intemperate man mortgages his property, there is little hope that he
  will ever redeem it.

“You got rid of him pretty easily, that time,” said Miss Lee, as Sam
passed along.

“I know it; but I shouldn’t have gone if I had got my lessons,” replied
Oscar.

“It makes me real sad to see how that boy has changed, within ten
years,” continued Miss Lee.

“He was once a pretty, modest, gentle boy, and used to be quite a
favorite of mine. Now, the coarse features of vice are settling upon his
face, and he is said to be a very bad boy.”

“He swears like everything,” remarked Oscar.

“So I have heard,” added Aunt Fanny.

“Henry swears some, too,” continued Oscar, alluding to a brother of Sam,
about thirteen years old.

“Ah, I am sorry to hear that,” said his aunt. “But it isn’t very
strange, after all, with such an example before him. A boy of Sam’s age
exerts a great influence on his young brothers and sisters. The little
children look up to the large ones with a sort of fear and respect, and
copy their ways, and imitate their example, right or wrong. Did you ever
think how much influence of this kind you may be exerting?”

“I don’t know that I ever thought much about it,” replied Oscar.

“Here are three children in the family,” continued his aunt, “younger
than you. The fact that you are older and have seen more of the world
than they, while you are still a boy, gives you quite an influence over
their minds. You can increase or diminish that influence, according to
the manner in which you treat them; but you can’t wholly divest yourself
of it. You must exert an influence over them, good or ill, in spite of
yourself, and when you are not thinking of it. I saw an illustration of
this, a few days ago. Otis and Ronald noticed that you had a star
pricked into your hand, and what did they do but prick stars into
theirs, as soon as they could get the materials!”

“Oh yes, I noticed that,” said Oscar, laughing.

“That was a trifling thing,” resumed Aunt Fanny, “but it illustrates a
great truth. It shows how you are watched, and copied, and it ought to
put you on your guard. You can use this influence so as to assist us in
training the children to good habits, or, if you choose, you can do just
the opposite. You see there is quite a responsibility resting upon you.
If they see that you are studious, industrious and faithful, they will
feel an influence drawing them in the same direction; but if you exhibit
any bad trait, it would not be strange if they should try to pattern
after it.”

“I never thought much about that before, but I mean to look out for it
now,” said Oscar.

Nothing was said to Oscar in relation to his unguarded remarks to the
boys about tattooing, and he never knew that he was overheard by his
aunt. That incident, however, gave the turn to the conversation on this
occasion.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER IV.

                            UP THE MOUNTAIN.


OSCAR, from the day of his arrival in Highburg, had expressed a desire
to ascend some one of the lofty mountain peaks in the neighborhood; and
Marcus had made a sort of half promise to get up a party, some fine
autumn day, to visit the Camel’s Hump, the highest eminence in that part
of the State. On reflection, however, it was thought best to abandon
this undertaking, on account of the distance of the mountain from
Highburg, the difficulty of making the ascent, and the time that would
be required for the expedition. But to compensate Oscar and the other
young folks for the disappointment, it was determined, one Saturday
afternoon, to make an excursion to a notable eminence called “Prescott’s
Peak,” situated about two miles from Mrs. Page’s.

The party consisted of Marcus, Oscar, Kate, Ronald, Otis, and Rover, the
dog. They struck an air-line towards the mountain, through fields,
meadows and woods, Rover strolling on ahead of the party, with an air of
entire satisfaction.

“I’ll bet Rover knows where we are going—don’t you believe he does,
Marcus?” inquired Oscar.

“I don’t know, I almost think sometimes that he knows what we say,”
replied Marcus.

“He knows a good deal that we say, any way,” remarked Otis. “You give
him a bucket, and tell him to carry it out to the barn, and he’ll do it
just as well as anybody; and he’ll lie down, or give you his paw, or
speak, if you tell him to.”

“One day, about a year ago,” said Marcus, “when Aunt Fanny was packing
her trunk, to go to Grandmother’s, she told Rover she had got to leave
him, and asked him if he didn’t want to go, too; and upon that he jumped
right into her trunk,—as much as to say, ‘Yes, I want to go,—pack me
in!’ When Aunt Fanny came back from her journey, it seemed as if he
would eat her up, he was so glad to see her. He never forgets anybody
that he has once known. Last summer, I took him over to Montpelier with
me, where he used to live; and although he hadn’t been there for over
two years, he remembered all his old friends, and went around and
scratched at all the doors of the houses he used to visit when he lived
there.”

“And he’s the neatest dog that I ever heard of,—he wont come into the
house with dirty paws,” added Kate.

“No,” continued Marcus, “and once when we had our floors newly painted,
and boards were laid to step upon, Rover understood the arrangement as
well as we did, and was careful to walk upon the boards until the paint
was dry.”

“We had a strange dog come to our house last winter, that knew
something,” said Otis. “He _knocked_ at the door, just as well as a man
could have done it. Mother went to see who had come, and she found
nothing but a dog. As soon as he saw her, he began to cry like a baby,
he was so cold and hungry. So she gave him some dinner, and let him warm
himself, and then he went off, and we never saw him again. But he
knocked at the door,—tap, tap, tap,—so you couldn’t have told him from a
man.”

“I could tell a story that would beat that,” said Oscar. “I knew a dog
in Boston that would open any door that was fastened by a latch, without
stopping to knock; and he’d shut it, too, if you told him to.”

“I could tell a story that would beat all of yours,” said Ronald. “It’s
about a dog that _unlocks_ doors; and if he can’t find the key, he will
hunt up a piece of wire, and _pick the lock_!”

“Why, Ronald Page! how dare you tell such a lie?” exclaimed Kate, after
the laugh that followed this sally had subsided.

“It wasn’t a lie,” replied Ronald. “I didn’t say a dog ever did that—I
said I could tell a _story_ about a dog that did it, and so I can.”

“It’s a lie, for all that; I’ll leave it to Marcus if it isn’t,”
rejoined Kate.

“Not exactly a lie, although it looks something like it,” observed
Marcus. “Ronald could not have intended to deceive anybody, when he told
such a tough story as that, and therefore it was not a falsehood. But”—

“A snake! a snake!” suddenly broke in Ronald, who was a little in
advance of the others.

“O, kill it! do kill it!” cried Kate, running back a few steps from the
scene of danger.

“No, I shan’t—you said I lied, and now you want me to commit murder, do
you?” retorted Ronald.

“Pooh! it’s nothing but the cast-off skin of a snake,” said Otis,
lifting it upon a stick, and tossing it toward Kate, who dexterously
dodged the missile.

“That was the skin of a black snake, wasn’t it?” inquired Oscar.

“Yes,” replied Ronald, “and a pretty large one, too.”

[Illustration]

“I saw a black snake all of six feet long, that summer I was down to
Brookdale,” said Oscar. “Jerry and I were on a high rock, and saw the
snake in the field below us. He was coiled up, and was watching a
squirrel that was a little way off. We got some stones, and pelted him,
but I believe we didn’t hit him, for we couldn’t find anything of him.”

“I killed a large black snake, all alone, down in our meadow, not more
than a month ago,” said Ronald.

“Is that one of your yarns, or do you expect us to believe it?” inquired
Oscar.

“It’s the truth, sir, I’ll leave it to Marcus, if it isn’t,” replied
Ronald.

“Hold on a minute,” said Marcus, stopping by the side of a small,
shallow pond they were passing; and, taking a stick, he began to stir up
its muddy bottom.

“What in the world is he dabbling in that dirty water for?” inquired
Kate.

“I guess he is hunting for frogs’ eggs,” said Ronald; “or, perhaps he’s
going to make some pollywog soup.”

“Do you see, he is going to set the pond afire!” cried Kate, as Marcus
drew some friction matches from his pocket.

Marcus continued his operations, without noticing the comments of his
companions, and in a little while, he actually produced a faint yellow
flame upon the surface of the water, to the astonishment of the company.
He then explained to them that this was an experiment which he had
learned while studying chemistry at the academy. When vegetable matter
decays under water, a gas called light carburetted hydrogen is formed,
which may be burned. On stirring up the bottom, the gas escapes, and
rises to the top in bubbles, and may be collected in jars, or set on
fire upon the surface of the water. This gas, he said, was the terrible
“firedamp,” which caused such tremendous explosions in coal mines,
before Sir Humphrey Davy invented his safety lamp, to protect the miners
from these disasters. He told them, also, that he had seen it stated in
a newspaper that on one of our Western rivers, when the water was very
low, the steamboats had to shut down their furnace doors for several
miles, and allow no torches to be lighted at night, for fear of “setting
the river on fire!” Frequently boats that did not use these precautions
at this particular place, have found themselves engulfed in flames,
greatly to the alarm of the passengers, and sometimes setting the
steamers on fire. In some instances, the passengers have come very near
leaping overboard, before the officers could convince them that there
was no danger; an act that would be almost literally “jumping from the
frying-pan into the fire.”

The party now resumed their course, and after skirting a swamp, and
threading their way thro’ a tangled growth of young birches and pines,
and breaking a path through the sharp, bristling stubble of a rye field,
they reached the foot of the mountain. The eminence was clothed with
that dress of unfading green from which this range takes its name,[3]
being covered with spruce, fir, hemlock, and other evergreens, to the
summit. They began the ascent by a narrow, steep and winding path,
which, however, had the appearance of being much used.

Footnote 3:

  The range was named _Verd Mont_ by the early French settlers, which
  means in English, Green Mountain. When the people declared themselves
  a free and independent State, in 1777, they adopted the French name as
  that of their Commonwealth, contracting it by the omission of the _d_.

“I should think a good many people came up here, by the looks,” remarked
Oscar.

“Not many, except Gooden’s folks,” replied Marcus.

“Who is Gooden?” inquired Oscar.

“He is a strange fellow who lives up on the mountain,” replied Marcus.
“We shall come to his cabin pretty soon, and perhaps you will have a
chance to see him.”

“But what does he live up here for, away from everybody?—is he cracked?”
inquired Oscar.

“He lives here because he prefers to keep out of the way of people, I
suppose,” replied Marcus.

“They say he used to steal, and got caught in a trap, once,” said Kate.

“A regular _steal_ trap, wasn’t it?” inquired Ronald.

“That is the common report,” added Marcus, not noticing Ronald’s pun,
“and I suppose it is true. The story is, that where he used to live, his
neighbors found their grain going off faster than they thought it ought
to, and one of them set a large bear trap, with steel springs and sharp
teeth, to catch the thief. One morning soon after, he went out to the
barn, and found Gooden fast in the trap. It caught him around the ankle,
and they say he was laid up for several months with a sore leg. He is a
little lame, now, from the effects of it. As soon as he could get away,
he came and settled in this out-of-the-way place, and lives as much like
a hermit as he can, with his family.”

“O, has he got a family?” inquired Oscar.

“Yes, a wife and four children,” replied Marcus.

“How does he support himself, now,—by stealing?” inquired Oscar.

“No,” replied Marcus, “nobody suspects him of dishonesty, now—he is
probably cured of that. He owns a cow, and raises corn and potatoes
enough to support his family. He kills some game, which supplies him
with meat. They get a little money by making maple sugar, and collecting
spruce gum. But after all they are quite poor, and people often give
them clothing, and other necessary articles. The children are growing up
in ignorance, too,—they never go to school or church. They will stand a
rather poor chance in the world, brought up in that way.”

[Illustration]

After toiling up the zigzag path awhile longer, the party came to an
open, level space, and found themselves within a few rods of Gooden’s
cabin, a small, rude structure, built of rough logs, with a large
chimney at one end, on the outside. Several children were playing around
the house, and the father himself was just coming in from a hunting
excursion up the mountain, with his gun on his shoulder, and his dog by
his side. Seeing the party approaching, Mr. Gooden went into the house
and shut the door. Marcus had often visited the family, on errands of
kindness, but knowing the morose and suspicious disposition of the
father, and his antipathy to company, he concluded not to stop at the
cabin. Exchanging a few words with Jake and Sally, the two oldest
children, who stood staring at the strangers, Marcus passed on, with his
party, through a path still more intricate and difficult.

“You said something about spruce gum—what do they do with it?” inquired
Oscar.

“They sell it,” replied Marcus. “A man comes round here every summer,
who makes it his business to collect spruce gum. He buys all the gum
that is offered him, and he hires boys to gather it for him, paying them
so much a pound. This gum is cleaned, and sent to the cities, where it
brings a good price.”

“Well, if everybody was like me, the spruce gum trade wouldn’t be worth
much,” said Kate. “I don’t see why anybody wants to chew the nasty
stuff, especially a young lady. How it looks, to see your jaws going the
whole time! There are some girls in the academy that always have their
mouths full of gum. I think it’s real disgusting.”

“Chewing gum isn’t quite so bad as chewing tobacco, but it is a foolish
and disgusting habit, as you say,” observed Marcus.

The party continued their ascent up the steep and slippery side of the
mountain, occasionally halting a few minutes to take breath. Some of
them began to question whether there was any top to it, as each turn of
the zigzag path, which promised to land them at the summit, only
revealed as they advanced a still higher point beyond. But at length the
top, the very “tip-top,” as the boys called it, was reached. Instead of
a sharp, sky-scraping ridge, they found the summit to be a broad and
nearly level plain, composed mostly of solid rock, and almost bare of
vegetation. But what a view did it present! A dozen villages scattered
among the valleys, with their nestling houses and white spires; the rich
meadows of the Winooski and its tributaries, with their thrifty farms;
the cattle and sheep “upon a thousand hills;” the dark and extensive
patches of forest, in which the woodman’s axe has never yet resounded;
the chain of mountain sentinels, drawn up in lines, conspicuous among
which were the Camel’s Hump, and the distant Mansfield Mountain, with
its “Nose,” “Lips” and “Chin;” the broad and peaceful expanse of Lake
Champlain, with a faint outline of the Adirondack Mountains looming up
beyond;—such is a very imperfect sketch of the scene that for a long
time engrossed the attention of the whole party.

After the party had rested themselves, and gazed at the extensive
prospect as long as they wished, Oscar proposed to erect a monument on
the summit that would be visible from their house, and would commemorate
their ascent of the mountain. The proposal was readily agreed to by all,
and they immediately set about gathering the necessary materials. All
the movable stones on the summit were soon collected in a heap, but
Marcus expressed a doubt whether there were enough to form a pile that
would be visible below.

“If we only had an axe,” said Oscar, “we could cut down a tree, and
strip off all the branches but a few at the top; and then we could set
the tree on the summit, and pile the stones about it to keep it in
place.”

“Has anybody got any string about him?” inquired Otis.

There was a general fumbling of pockets, and among a score of
miscellaneous articles produced was a piece of old fishing-line
belonging to Ronald.

“That’s just the thing,” said Otis. “Now we will find a tree that has
blown down, and tie a lot of new branches to the top of it, and stick it
up, as Oscar said.”

This proposal was adopted. A tall, straight sapling was soon found, that
had fallen before the furious winter blasts that play among the Peak.
Its branches, now partially decayed, were broken off, and the trunk made
as clean as possible, with the exception of the top. A quantity of
evergreen boughs were then procured, and lashed to the top of the
sapling by the fishing-line. The signal pole, with its heavy tuft, was
now raised to its place by the united strength of the party, and the
stones piled compactly around its bottom, until it seemed as firm as
though rooted in the earth. Three cheers were given for the monument,
and then, after a short resting-spell, the party began to descend.

With merry shouts and laughter they were bounding, sliding and tumbling
down the steep side of the mountain, the boys sometimes far outstripping
Kate and Marcus, and then pausing awhile, to see how their more moderate
companions got along. In this way they had proceeded nearly a quarter of
a mile from the summit, when Kate suddenly brought them to a stand by
exclaiming—

“I declare! if I haven’t left my veil on the top of the mountain! I took
it off when we were looking at the scenery, because it was in my way,
and I forgot to put it on again.”

“That’s just like you,” said her brother; “you are always forgetting
something.”

“Never mind, I’ll run back and get it—it wont take but a few minutes,”
said Oscar.

“No, let me go—I’m more used to it than Oscar is,” exclaimed Ronald.

“I’d let her go herself—it would make her more careful next time,” said
Otis, in a low tone, which he did not intend Marcus should hear.

“Ronald is the nimblest, and he has been up the mountain before; so I
think he had better go and get the veil, and we will wait for him till
he gets back,” said Marcus.

Ronald accordingly scrambled up the hill again, while the others seated
themselves on the dry leaves beneath a noble pine.

“I don’t see what girls want to wear veils for,” said Otis, somewhat
petulantly, after they were seated.

“It isn’t necessary for you to know why they wear them, Master Otis,”
replied Kate, quite coolly.

“I have no objection to girls’ wearing veils, if they choose to, but I
don’t like to see boys wear such things,” said Marcus.

“Why, did you ever see boys wear veils?” inquired Otis, with surprise.

“I have seen boys that I thought acted as if they wore veils over their
eyes,” replied Marcus.

“How did they act?” inquired Otis, after a moment’s pause.

“They acted as if they could not see things that were as plain as a
pike-staff to other people,” replied Marcus.

Otis seemed to be trying to interpret to himself this enigmatical
language, but did not appear inclined to ask any more questions.

“For instance,” added Marcus, after a brief pause, “when you see a boy
rude or unkind towards his sister, when there is no provocation, you may
conclude that he has a veil or something else over his eyes; for if he
could see plainly how such conduct looks to other people’s eyes, he
would not indulge in it.”

Otis apparently understood the point of the remark, and felt it, too;
but he made no reply. In a few minutes a merry shout announced the
approach of Ronald, and he soon appeared, with the lost veil fastened to
his straw hat. He claimed the privilege of wearing it home, which Kate
readily granted; but before the party came in sight of the log cabin, he
concluded to surrender it to its owner.

Going down the mountain proved almost as difficult and exciting as
climbing up, and many a slip and tumble happened to one and another, on
the way. Sometimes a low branch across the path, bent from its place and
then let loose by one, would bring up the boy behind with a whack that
made him see stars. By one of these flying limbs Otis had his cap
suddenly removed from his head, and whirled over a precipice, lodging in
the top of a tall tree below. The disaster was followed by a prolonged
and hearty shout from those who witnessed it, and the others hastened to
the spot, to see what the matter was.

“I’ll get it for you, Oty—I can climb that tree easy enough,” exclaimed
Ronald, as soon as he comprehended the extent of the mishap.

“No,” said Marcus, with assumed gravity, “let him get his cap himself—it
will make him more careful next time.”

“I don’t see what boys wear caps for; they are always losing them,”
remarked Kate, the fun in her eyes but half concealed.

“It wasn’t my fault—I couldn’t help it,” replied Otis, with the utmost
seriousness. “Ronald let the branch fly right into my face, and it took
my cap off before I knew it was coming.”

“Well, if Ronald is to blame, I think we shall have to send him after
the cap,” said Marcus.

They made their way, with some difficulty, to the spot where the tree
stood. Ronald, being a more expert climber than any of the others, was
entrusted with the job, and ascended the tree almost with the agility of
a squirrel. He took with him a pole, and with its aid the cap was soon
dislodged, and sent to the ground below.

No further incidents of importance befell the party, on their descent of
the mountain. Mr. Gooden did not manifest himself to them, as they
passed his cabin; and none of his family were visible. They reached
their home, tired and hungry, in season to get a view of the signal they
had raised, after the sun had sunk behind Prescott’s Peak; and there the
tall sapling stood, for a long time afterwards, reminding them of their
pleasant tramp “up the mountain.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CHAPTER V.

                       THE BLOTTED WRITING-BOOK.


THERE were loud demonstrations of joy among the juvenile members of the
household, one morning, when Marcus handed a letter to Kate, for Mr.
Upton, the principal of the academy, and informed them that it contained
his acceptance of the office of assistant teacher in that institution,
for the winter term. The appointment had been offered him several weeks
previous, and had been the subject of much consideration on the part of
Marcus, and of no little interest, also, among the children, who were
all anxious to have Marcus for a teacher, notwithstanding he repeatedly
forewarned them, that if he should show them any particular favor as
their instructor, it would only be by looking more sharply after them
than he did after the other scholars.

“Three cheers for Master Page!” shouted Ronald, and they were given,
with as much power as four noisy throats could command.

“You know me, Marcus,—you’ll excuse me from writing compositions, wont
you?” inquired Kate, when the noise had subsided.

“You know me, too, Marcus,—you wont make me speak pieces, will you?”
said Otis.

“You know me, Master Page,—you wont make me do any thing, will you?”
added Ronald, capping the climax.

“Yes, I know you, you young rogue, and if you don’t walk straight you’ll
catch it!” said Marcus, in reply to the last speaker.

Ronald did not take the admonition much to heart; but concluded his
demonstrations of delight by throwing his cap over an apple tree,
turning two somersets, and crowing like a “rooster,” whose clarion notes
he could imitate with ludicrous fidelity. Then, leaping upon the back of
Otis, who with Kate was just starting for school, he disappeared; but
his voice was uppermost among the joyous shouts and laughter that came
across the fields long after their departure.

Kate and Otis did not usually go home from school at noon, but carried
their dinners with them, the distance being too great to walk. Ronald,
however, generally dined at home, the district school, which he was now
attending, being less than a mile distant from Mrs. Page’s. In the
course of the forenoon, before the hour of school dismission, as Marcus
was at work throwing up muck from a meadow, he was surprised to see
Ronald approaching, on the road leading to the house. “He must be sick,”
thought Marcus, as he noticed how slowly he walked, and how silent and
dejected he appeared. What a change had come over the light-hearted boy,
within two hours!

Ronald appeared to hesitate a moment, and then turned into the meadow,
towards Marcus. As soon as he was within speaking distance, the latter
inquired what the matter was. Ronald made no reply until he had reached
the place where Marcus stood, and then he exclaimed:—

“I’m not going to _that_ school any more—I’ve been licked for nothing,
and I wont stand it!”

“And how came you home at this time of day?” inquired Marcus.

“I ran away from school,” replied Ronald.

“Indeed!” said Marcus; “and will you please to explain why?”

“Mrs. Benham set out to lick me——”

“Begin at the beginning, and tell the whole story,” interrupted Marcus.
“What did she punish you for?”

“Why, you see she was real cross this morning,” said Ronald; “I saw it
as soon as she got there, and thought there’d be a squall before night.
Well, I was studying my lesson, and she came along, and wanted to look
at my writing-book. So I handed it to her, and she opened it, and found
four or five great blots on the page I wrote yesterday afternoon. She
looked real mad, and asked me what it meant, and I told her I didn’t do
it, and didn’t know anything about it. Then she said I lied, and she’d
whip me for blotting the book, and for lying, too. So she made me go out
to the platform, and began to put on the ratan over my hands, just as
hard as she could. See that,” continued Ronald, showing to Marcus
several red stripes on the palm of his hand. “I couldn’t stand that, so
I got the stick away from her, and ran off as fast as I could. I didn’t
blot the book, nor tell a lie, and I wont be whipped for nothing by Mrs.
Benham, I know.”

“Have you told me the truth, about this affair, and nothing but the
truth?” inquired Marcus, fixing a steady gaze upon Ronald.

“Yes, sir, I’ve told the real truth, and nothing else,” replied Ronald.

“Is it the whole truth?” inquired Marcus. “Have you not kept something
back?”

“Why, I pulled the teacher over, when I got the stick away,—I believe I
didn’t tell you about that,” replied Ronald, in a lower tone. “I didn’t
mean to do it, though. She was on the edge of the platform, and I was
standing on the floor, and when I caught the ratan and jerked it away,
she fell upon the floor, somehow, and then I ran off.”

“How do you know that she was not injured by the fall?” inquired Marcus.

“O, it didn’t hurt her, for she chased me out to the door, and shook her
fist at me,—I turned around and saw her,” replied Ronald.

“Well, you have got yourself into a pretty scrape,” said Marcus, “and
it’s my opinion you have not seen the worst of it yet. According to your
own story, you are liable to be arrested for assault and battery, and
what’s to be done, then?”

“I didn’t assault her, nor batter her; she held on to the stick, and I
just pulled her over, that was all,” replied Ronald.

“You resisted your teacher, and pulled her upon the floor; and that is
sufficient, I think, to constitute what the law terms assault and
battery,” said Marcus. “At any rate, I do not see but that you will have
to go back and apologize to her, before the school, and then let her
finish the flogging she intended to give you, if she chooses. I think
that would be the easiest way to settle the difficulty. You had better
go home and tell mother about it, and see what she says.”

Ronald turned away with a sadder heart than ever. He revolted at the
thought of a public apology and submission, and secretly determined that
he would not yield to such a humiliation. He went home and told his
story to Mrs. Page, who seemed much grieved and troubled by his conduct.
She questioned him very closely about the blots on the writing-book,
from which all the trouble sprang; but he protested that he knew nothing
about them, with great apparent sincerity. Still, she remembered that
Ronald was much addicted to lying, when he came to live with her; and
though the habit had been broken up, by patient labor and often severe
discipline, there was a lurking fear that he might possibly have
relapsed, under a strong temptation.

When Marcus came in to dinner, Ronald’s case was freely discussed, and
the conclusion appeared to be unanimous that they could not sustain him
in the course he had taken, even if he were innocent of the fault for
which he was punished. It was argued that a school government must, of
necessity, be a sort of absolute monarchy. The teacher, although
responsible to the community, and more immediately to the committee, if
it be a public school, is _not_ accountable to his pupils. Among _them_
he is king, and resistance to his authority is treason. He may sometimes
seem unreasonable in his requirements, but his scholars are not the best
judges of this. He may even sometimes punish the innocent, by mistake;
but in such a case, it is better to submit to a little temporary pain
and mortification, trusting in a future redress or reparation, rather
than to defy or resist his authority in the presence of the school,
thereby shaking the foundation of his government. So reasoned Mrs. Page,
Aunt Fanny, and Marcus, and they thus reached the conclusion that Ronald
was guilty of a flagrant offence in school, and was liable to expulsion,
if not prosecution.

In the afternoon, just before it was time to dismiss school, Marcus went
to see the teacher, taking Ronald with him, who, by the way, was quite
reluctant to go. Mrs. Benham received them politely, and after the
school closed, Marcus told her Ronald had informed him that he had had a
difficulty with her, and requested her to give him an account of the
affair.

“Something more than a difficulty,” replied the teacher; “it was a
downright attack upon me, and I feel the effects of it yet. I never was
abused in that way by a boy before. The way it commenced was this: I
asked Ronald to let me look at his writing-book, and I found several
large blots on the last page he wrote. I felt doubly provoked, because
his was the neatest writing-book in the boys’ department, and I wished
it kept nice, for the committee to examine. When I called him to account
for the blots, he answered, as children are apt to do in such a case,
that he didn’t know anything about them, and never saw them before. That
was a very improbable story, and I felt almost sure, from his actions,
that he was telling me a lie. So I told him I should be obliged to
punish him if he attempted to deceive me. He answered, in an impudent
tone, that ‘he hadn’t done anything, and wasn’t going to be whipped for
nothing.’ I talked with him further about it, and tried to persuade him
to tell the truth, but he grew more obstinate and saucy, and threatened
that he would never come to school again if I punished him. I thought it
was time then to take him in hand, so I began to punish him with the
ratan; but before I had given him half a dozen blows, he caught hold of
the stick, and in jerking it away from me, some how threw me down upon
the floor. He then ran off and took my stick with him. I hurt my
shoulder, in falling, and it is quite sore, now.”

“You didn’t tell me you were impudent, Ronald; why did you keep that
back?” inquired Marcus.

“I didn’t know that I was impudent,” replied Ronald.

“You said I shouldn’t punish you, and that you would never come to
school again if I did; shouldn’t you call that impudent, Marcus?”
inquired the teacher.

“Yes, I call that impudent language, when addressed to a teacher,”
replied Marcus. “Still, I think he may not have _intended_ to be
saucy—that is a fault he is not much addicted to. What did you do with
Mrs. Benham’s stick, Ronald?”

“I broke it, and threw it into the swamp,” replied Ronald.

Marcus expressed a wish to see the blotted writing-book, and it was
handed to him. After a close examination, he discovered that the blots
were of a lighter color than the writing upon the page, indicating one
of two things: 1st, They were made with a different ink from that which
Ronald used; or, 2d, They had been recently made, and the ink had not
yet acquired its perfect color from contact with the air. This
discovery, however, gave no clew to the mystery, although it proved that
Ronald did not blot the book when he last used it. Ronald now renewed
his protestations of innocence, with such apparent sincerity, that
Marcus felt satisfied he was telling the truth, especially as he had not
known him to adhere stubbornly to a falsehood for several years. His
teacher also admitted the possibility of his innocence so far as that
offence was concerned, but thought he had done enough, independent of
that, to justify her in excluding him from the school.

“We admit that he has done wrong,” said Marcus, “but we should be very
sorry to have him expelled from school. He expects to leave next month,
but he mustn’t go with such a stain as this upon his name. On what
conditions will you consent to his coming back to school?”

Mrs. Benham thought a moment, and then replied:—

“I do not wish to be harsh or unreasonable with Ronald. If he is sorry
for what he has done, and is willing to say so before the school, that
is enough. As the offence was committed before the whole school, I do
not think I ought to ask less than that.”

“I think that is reasonable,” replied Marcus. “Are you willing to do it,
Ronald?”

Ronald made no reply until the question had been repeated several times,
and then he merely shook his head negatively.

“Well, perhaps he will change his mind before to-morrow morning,” said
Marcus, addressing the teacher; and bidding her good evening, he started
for home, followed by Ronald.

Marcus said little to the boy, on their way home, preferring to leave
him to his own thoughts—not very pleasant company to be sure, but
perhaps the best for him, under the circumstances. Before Ronald went to
bed, however, Mrs. Page talked with him a little while about the affair.
There were three classes of motives by which she endeavored to persuade
him to comply with the teacher’s requirement. First she appealed to his
affection for her—a motive that seldom failed to take effect upon
Ronald. Then she appealed to reason, and tried to overcome him by
argument. Finally she resorted to a lower and more selfish class of
motives, and portrayed the disgrace of being expelled from school, and
the instantaneous relief of mind he would find in confessing his fault.
Still the proud spirit was unsubdued.

After a troubled night, Ronald awoke in quite as unhappy a frame of mind
as ever. He went about his morning’s work, silently, and the other
children, not wishing to intermeddle in his trouble, kept so much aloof
that he fancied they shunned him. Oscar, however, remembering a lesson
that had recently been impressed upon his mind, cast his influence upon
the right side, and advised Ronald to yield. Still the stubborn will
revolted at the thought.

It was a settled principle with Mrs. Page, that when a child refuses to
be governed by such motives as may be drawn from love, reason, the hope
of reward, and the fear of punishment, it is time for authority to
assume its stern sway. Having exhausted these motives upon Ronald, in
vain, there remained but one other—YOU MUST; and this she proceeded to
apply.

“Ronald,” she said, a little while before school time, “it is time to be
fixing for school; and here is a note which I wish you to take to the
teacher.”

“Have I got to go to school to-day?” inquired Ronald, in a tone of
surprise, as though such a possibility had not occurred to him.

“Yes,” replied Mrs. Page, in a calm but firm manner, “you are going to
school this morning, and as soon as it opens you will make a public
apology for your conduct yesterday. I have written to your teacher that
you will do so. You must carry a stick, too, in place of the one you
threw away. Marcus will give it to you.”

“But what must I say?” inquired Ronald, his eyes swimming with tears.

“Tell her you are sorry for what you did yesterday, and ask her to
forgive you. That is all you need say.”

With a sad countenance and a heavy heart, Ronald turned his steps
towards the school-house. Reluctant though he was to go, he hurried on
his way, hoping to reach the school-room before many of the scholars had
assembled. He began to realize his unpleasant situation as he noticed
that a group of little girls were eyeing him curiously, and evidently
making him the subject of remark. Soon a squad of boys noticed his
approach, and commenced a volley of rough salutations.

“Halloo, Ron! going to take the rest of that licking to-day?” cried one.

“Ha, old fellow! you’ll catch it—I bet you will,” said another.

“You’ve got to be turned out of school—teacher said so,” cried out
another.

Ronald passed on without replying to his young tormentors, and entering
the school-room, deposited the letter and the new ratan upon the
teacher’s desk. He then took his seat, and tremblingly awaited the
opening of the school. Mrs. Benham soon came in, and, after hastily
reading the letter, gave the signal for the school to assemble. As soon
as the opening exercises were over, Ronald arose, and in a low,
tremulous voice said:—

“Mrs. Benham, I am very sorry for what I did yesterday, and I beg your
pardon.”

Perfect stillness reigned throughout the room, broken only by the sobs
of Ronald, as he sat down and burst into tears. The painful silence was
quickly relieved by the teacher, who, grasping Ronald kindly by the
hand, said, with much feeling:—

“I forgive you, with all my heart, Ronald, and I am glad you have
manliness enough to confess your fault, and ask forgiveness. You have
acted very honorably, in doing this, and I shall think all the better of
you for it, hereafter. We will bury the past and be good friends again,”
and she gave his hand a new shake. Then turning to the school she
continued, “I have a confession to make, too. I am now satisfied that
Ronald was not guilty of the offence for which I undertook to punish him
yesterday. He says he does not know how his writing-book was blotted,
and I believe him. I was too hasty, in punishing him, and am sorry for
it. I ask his forgiveness. And I hope the one that blotted the book will
come forward and own it, and relieve him from all suspicion of
falsehood.”

The teacher paused, and looked around the room, but no one responded to
the call. She then continued:—

“I am very sorry to think there is one here who can be so dishonorable,
and unjust, and mean, as to try to conceal his fault under these
circumstances. I am sure he cannot have a very quiet conscience.”

The kind, forgiving spirit of the teacher, and her readiness to
acknowledge her own error, completely subdued the proud heart of Ronald.
He felt truly glad that he had confessed his fault. Indeed, with his
present feelings, he would have cheerfully done it, of his own free
will. Not only was a heavy burden removed from his mind, but he felt a
new and stronger affection for his teacher, realizing the truth of the
saying, that “whoever is forgiven much, will love much.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER VI.

                            LETTER-WRITING.


SEVERAL weeks had elapsed, since Oscar’s regular daily tasks were set,
and he continued to discharge his duties in a satisfactory manner. The
wood-pile grew a little, weekly, under his management, and the kitchen
was always kept well supplied with fuel. He had become quite expert in
cutting hay and feeding the cows and horses, and the latter he cleaned,
harnessed and drove, with the air of a veteran horseman. The hogs, of
whom he had the principal care, seemed quite contented under their new
master, and rewarded his attentions with many grunts of satisfaction, if
not gratitude. He had assisted cheerfully in gathering the late crops of
the farm, and had even acknowledged that milking the cows was not so
disagreeable work as he had imagined. His lessons, also, were for the
most part well learned. To be sure they were not very hard, being mostly
reviews of studies he had previously gone over. But his natural
abilities as a scholar were good, and he learned easily, when he set
about it in earnest. The only exercise that gave him serious trouble was
the dreaded Saturday’s “composition,” which, indeed, was more terrible
in anticipation than in reality.

“Isn’t it almost time to answer some of your letters, Oscar?” inquired
Marcus one morning, as the former was about sitting down to his lessons.

“I suppose it is,” replied Oscar.

“Let me see,” continued Marcus, “you have had letters from your mother,
and from Alice, and from Clinton—these have all got to be answered. And
then you promised to write to Willie, or ‘Whistler,’ as you call him,
did you not?”

“Yes,” replied Oscar.

“I’m afraid you are a rather negligent correspondent,” added Marcus. “I
wouldn’t get into that habit, if I were you. While you are away from
home, you will want to hear from your friends occasionally; but if you
neglect them, they will be apt to neglect you.”

“But I hate to write letters,” replied Oscar.

“Do you consider that a sufficient reason for neglecting to answer the
letters of your friends?” inquired Marcus.

“No,” replied Oscar.

“Neither do I,” continued Marcus. “So I think you had better sit right
down and attend to your correspondence, to-day, instead of getting any
lessons. You will have time enough to write all four of the letters. You
had better go to your chamber, where you will be out of the way of
interruption. You have paper and ink, I believe?”

“Yes,” responded Oscar.

“That reminds me of something else, that I want to say to you,” added
Marcus. “I have noticed within a few days that you are getting in the
habit of saying ‘yes,’ ‘no,’ ‘what?’ etc., when speaking to your elders.
I noticed it yesterday, when you were talking with Mr. Burr, and I have
heard you speak to mother and Aunt Fanny in the same way. It is a little
thing, I know, but it always sounds unpleasantly to my ears. It is
disrespectful, and shows ill breeding. Somehow, I am very apt to form a
bad opinion of a boy or girl who speaks in that way. It is my opinion
that many a boy has missed a good situation, by just saying ‘yes,’ ‘no,’
or ‘what?’ when he applied for a place, instead of ‘yes, sir,’ ‘no,
sir,’ or ‘what, sir?’ That is worth thinking of, if there were no other
motive; don’t you see it is?”

“Yes—sir,” replied Oscar, nearly forgetting the very word they were
talking about.

“So far as I am concerned, personally,” continued Marcus, “I have no
claim to be _sirred_ by you, as there is a difference of only a few
years in our ages. Still, as your example will have much influence over
Ronald, I thought I had better mention the subject to you. Besides, I
may become your teacher in a few weeks, and you know ‘Master Page’ will
have to stand upon his dignity a little, in the schoolroom, whether
‘Cousin Marcus’ chooses to or not. At any rate, I hope you will try to
speak respectfully to older people, if you do not to me. There, I wont
detain you any longer—you can go to work on your letters as soon as you
please.”

Oscar went to his room, and, having arranged his paper, ink and pen, sat
down by the open window, for it was a mild Indian-summer day. He first
read over the letters he was to answer, and then began to think what he
should write in reply. But, failing to keep his mind upon the subject
before him, his thoughts gradually wandered off, until he quite forgot
the business in hand. As he sat in a dreamy mood, gazing upon the hills,
prominent among which was Prescott’s Peak, with its signal still erect,
he descried a large bird sailing majestically through the air, nearly
overhead. It was at a great height, but as it approached the hills it
descended, and disappeared in the woods near their base. A few minutes
afterward it again soared aloft, and, wheeling around the Peak, as if
taking an observation of the monument which the boys had erected, it
appeared to descend near the summit, where Oscar finally lost sight of
it.

Oscar was satisfied that the strange bird was an eagle, and as he sat
patiently watching for its reappearance, he thought what a fine shot it
offered, and imagined himself on the mountain, gun in hand, stealthily
pursuing the noble game. Now it alights upon a tall tree, within
rifle-shot. Cautiously the boy-hunter takes aim; “crack!” goes the
fowling-piece; and down tumbles the monarch of the air, crashing through
the branches of the tree. His feathers are stained with blood; but his
fierce eye flashes defiance at his murderer, as he approaches, and with
his powerful wing he well-nigh breaks the arm that is stretched out to
secure him. After a desperate struggle, he is despatched by a blow from
the butt of the weapon, and is borne home in triumph—a heavy task—to the
wonder and admiration of the whole neighborhood.

[Illustration]

But Oscar’s kindling imagination is not satisfied with this feat. It
must try again. The bird eludes his gun, but he follows it, and
discovers its haunt, on a steep and rocky precipice, near one of the
mountain summits. Throwing aside his gun, and grasping such scanty and
stunted trees as are at hand, he boldly lowers himself down the
frightful chasm. One misstep, the giving way of a single slender twig,
would plunge him headlong to destruction; but what cares he for that?
There is a prize below, and he is determined to have it. Now he catches
a glimpse of the nest, on a narrow, shelving rock, and for the first
time discovers that there are two old birds, which, with outspread
wings, are guarding their young brood. Undaunted, he descends the steep
and slippery rocks, till he is almost within reach of the nest. Now the
eagles, roused to fury, fly at him, and with wing, beak and talon
commence the assault. Supporting himself by one hand, he uses the other
and one foot to ward off the assailants. Long the battle rages, and
again and again the adventurous hunter seems almost overcome; but when
about to sink down, faint and gasping, the birds, battered and
exhausted, give up the contest in despair. The boy seizes the prize,
scrambles up the fearful precipice, and hurries home, to raise a brood
of eagles.

“But this isn’t writing my letters,” exclaimed Oscar to himself,
suddenly awaking from his day dream. “A whole hour gone, and not a line
written yet. Well, I’ll go about it, now. I think I’ll write to mother
first. Let me think—what day of the month is it? I am sure I can’t
tell—I must run down stairs and find out.”

Oscar went down to the sitting-room, and, by referring to a newspaper,
ascertained the date. But, before he laid the paper aside, his eye was
attracted by the heading of a story, and, on reading a few lines, he
became so much interested in it, that he took the journal up to his
room, and thought of nothing else until he had finished reading the
piece. Then, remembering his neglected task, he hurriedly arranged his
paper, and wrote the date and complimentary address. But the ink did not
flow freely from his pen, and, taking a sheet of waste paper, he
commenced scribbling upon it, to see if he could remedy the trouble. How
long he continued this diversion, he was scarcely aware, but at length
it was interrupted by a step on the stairs, and a knock at his door.
Quickly concealing the well scribbled evidence of his idleness, he bade
the visitor walk in, and Marcus entered.

“Well, how do you get along?” inquired Marcus.

“Not very well,” replied Oscar. “I have been hindered by one thing and
another, ever since I began. To begin with, just after I came up here, I
saw an eagle flying over. Didn’t you see it?”

“No—but are you sure it was an eagle?” inquired Marcus.

“Why, yes, it must have been an eagle,” replied Oscar. “It was the
largest bird I ever saw, and I should think he was all of a mile high
when he flew over. He lit on the Peak, and that was the last I saw of
him.”

“Yes, I remember, now,—I did see a hawk over in that neighborhood, and
that must have been your eagle,” quietly observed Marcus.

Oscar did not relish such a summary disposal of his eagle story, and was
about to protest against it, when Marcus inquired how many letters he
had finished.

“None,” replied Oscar.

“Not one!” exclaimed Marcus; “and is that the beginning of the first
letter?” glancing at the sheet which contained the date and address.

“Yes, sir,” said Oscar.

“Ah, you have been reading the newspaper, as well as watching hawks,”
continued Marcus, as his eye fell upon the printed sheet.

“I got that to see about the date,” replied Oscar, forgetting that
sometimes there is little difference between half of a truth and a lie.

“What _have_ you been doing all the forenoon, then?” inquired Marcus.

“The ink is so thick that I couldn’t write,” added Oscar.

“Let me try it,” said Marcus; and he seated himself in Oscar’s chair,
and, looking for some waste paper, drew out the sheet which his cousin
had covered with all sorts of flourishes, figures, puzzles, etc. “I
think the ink must flow pretty freely, if it is thick,” he quietly
added.

Having satisfied himself that the ink was not to blame, Marcus said he
was sorry the letters were not finished, as he was expecting to drive
over to an adjoining town, in the afternoon, and intended to let Oscar
accompany him, if his task was completed. Oscar said he thought he could
finish the letters after he got back; but his cousin was far from
agreeing with him in this opinion.

“No,” said Marcus, “you will hardly get through this afternoon,
supposing you work diligently. I think you had better not stop even for
dinner, but I will bring you up something to eat, so that you need lose
no time. I want you to finish the four letters before you leave the
room, if possible.”

Oscar hardly knew whether to consider himself a prisoner, or not, so
pleasantly had Marcus addressed him. He concluded, however, that it was
time to go to work, and was soon deeply engaged in the letter to his
mother. Now that his mind was aroused, and his attention fixed, he found
no difficulty in writing, and the letter was about completed, when
Marcus appeared, with a light repast, instead of the accustomed
substantial noonday meal.

“I never feel like writing, after a hearty meal,—so I have brought you a
light dinner,” said Marcus, setting the tray upon the table.

“What time shall you start?” inquired Oscar.

“In about an hour,” was the reply.

“I have got one letter about done,” said Oscar, “and I can finish
another before you go. Don’t you suppose I could finish the other two
after we get back?”

“I am afraid not,” replied Marcus. “You will have but little time, then,
and besides, you wont feel like writing. I think you had better finish
your letters before you do anything else. Perhaps you can get them done
in season to mail them to-day.”

Marcus now withdrew, and in the course of an hour drove off upon his
errand. When he returned, he found the family at tea, and Oscar with
them.

“Well, Oscar, have you written all your letters?” inquired Marcus.

“Yes, sir, and carried them to the post office, too,” replied Oscar.

“Ah, you have been pretty smart—that is, if you didn’t make them too
short,” observed Marcus.

“They are about as long as my letters generally are,” replied Oscar

“You found no great difficulty in writing, when you bent your mind down
to it, did you?” inquired Marcus.

“No, sir, not much.”

“I supposed you wouldn’t,” continued Marcus. “Mother, I’ve been thinking
of a plan, this afternoon, for making letter-writing pleasant, and I
want your opinion of it.”

“I think highly of letter-writing as an exercise,” said Mrs. Page, “and
if you can devise a way to make the children like it, I shall be very
glad.”

“I can’t see what makes boys hate to write letters so—for my part I like
to do it,” said Kate.

“Yes, I should think you liked it—you write half a dozen billets every
day, in school,” interposed Otis.

“Why, Otis Sedgwick, what a story! I don’t believe I have averaged more
than one note a day, this whole term,” replied Kate.

“Well, that speaks pretty well for your epistolary taste, if you have
done nothing more,” said Marcus. “But let me explain my plan. I propose
that we have a letter-box put up in some part of the house, and that
every one in the family engage to write one letter a week to some other
member, and drop it into the box, which we might call our post office.
The greatest liberty might be allowed, in the choice of subjects and
style, and the letters might be anonymous, or written in an assumed
character, if preferred. If any one wanted to ask a favor, or make a
complaint, or offer a suggestion, or correct an error, or drop a word of
caution or reproof, or indulge a fancy, or make sport, this would afford
a good opportunity to do it. What do you think of the plan, mother?”

“I think it is a good idea, and I shall vote for giving it a fair
trial,” said Mrs. Page.

“And how does it strike you, Aunt Fanny?” continued Marcus.

“Very favorably,” replied Miss Lee. “If you can interest the young folks
in it, I have no doubt it will work well.”

“O, I think it is a capital idea—I shall vote for it with both hands,”
exclaimed Kate.

“And what say you, Oscar?” inquired Marcus.

“I suppose I must come into the arrangement, if all the others do,”
replied Oscar, smiling.

“Not much enthusiasm there,” observed Marcus; “but we’ll excuse him, as
he has been writing letters all day. Well, Otis, what do you say to the
plan?”

“I hate to write letters,” replied Otis.

“Very likely,” said Marcus; “and that is precisely the reason why you
ought to come into our arrangement, for we are going to try to make
letter-writing easy and pleasant.”

“Well, I’ll agree to it,” said Otis.

“Of course you wont hang back, Ronald?” added Marcus.

“I don’t know about that,” replied Ronald. “Couldn’t I be mail-boy, or
post-master, or something of that sort, and so be excused from writing?”

“We probably shall not need your services in that line—we can help
ourselves to our letters,” replied Marcus.

“Well, I’ll join your society on one condition,” said Ronald, with an
air of grave importance.

“What is that?” inquired Marcus.

“That you shan’t make us write long letters,” was the reply.

“Your letters may be as long or as short as you choose to make them,”
replied Marcus. “We have all agreed to the plan—now I think it would be
well to have a few written rules, to govern us. Perhaps we can arrange
that after we get through our work this evening.”

The proposal was approved, and in the evening the subject was again
brought up. All were invited to offer such suggestions as occurred to
them.

“Would it not be well enough for us to resolve ourselves into a society,
and adopt a name?” inquired Aunt Fanny.

“I think it would,—what shall we call it?” inquired Marcus.

“The Post Office Society,” suggested Otis.

“The Literary Fraternity,” proposed Kate.

“The Letter-writing Society,” said Mrs. Page.

The latter name was finally adopted, as being more expressive than the
others. Aunt Fanny then suggested that the title needed the addition of
some qualifying word, to make it more definite and distinctive.

“Call it the Highburg Letter-writing Society,” said Kate.

“There are only seven of us, and I doubt whether it would be exactly
modest to appropriate the name of the town to our association,” remarked
Mrs. Page.

“The Page Letter-writing Society,” suggested Ronald.

“The Excelsior Letter-writing Society,” proposed Kate.

“That is better,” said Marcus. “Does anybody object to it? No; so we
will call that point settled. Now please to suggest rules for our
government.”

“Every member must write at least one letter weekly to some other
member,” said Mrs. Page.

“And if any one fails to contribute his share to the stock of letters,
what shall be done to him?” inquired Miss Lee.

“Turn him out,” said Otis.

“Debar him from taking any letters from the office, until he has made
good all deficiencies,” suggested Mrs. Page.

This latter proposal was adopted, and further suggestions called for.

“All letters must be sealed,” suggested Kate.

“And pre-paid,” added Ronald.

“I hardly think it necessary to seal the letters,” said Marcus. “Perhaps
we had better leave that optional with the writer.”

“But I think the one that receives the letter ought to have something to
say about that, as well as the writer,” said Kate.

“Well, I have no objection to your rule, if no one else has,” said
Marcus.

Several other rules were agreed to, and noted down by Marcus. When
completed, the list of regulations stood as follows:


         “REGULATIONS OF THE EXCELSIOR LETTER-WRITING SOCIETY.

“Each member shall write at least one letter per week to some other
member.

“Any member who fails to comply with this rule, without a reasonable
excuse, shall forfeit his right to take letters from the post office
until his delinquency is made good.

“Each member shall divide his epistolary favors as equally among the
others as possible.

“The utmost freedom as to matter and style will be allowed, but nothing
must be written calculated to wound the feelings of another.

“Fictitious signatures, and a disguised hand, are allowable, when
preferred.

“All letters to be sealed.

“The post office to be accessible to any member, at all times.”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER VII.

                            THE RAIN POWER.


AFTER the children had gone to school, the next day, Marcus made a
letter-box, and fastened it against the wall, in the entry. While he was
at work upon it, a young lady from another part of the town called in to
invite the family to a husking party. On learning the design of the box,
she solicited the privilege of inaugurating it, which was readily
granted. So, begging a sheet or two of paper, she sat down and wrote
notes of invitation to Kate, Otis and Ronald, and dropped them into the
box.

“Hurrah! here’s the post office box, and some letters in it!” exclaimed
Ronald, when he came home from school in the afternoon.

“I’m going to have the first one, let me see if I’m not,” cried Kate,
rushing for the post office.

“No, the first one is for me, but here’s one you may have,” replied
Ronald, handing Kate the note directed to her.

“Well, there’s one rule broken, the very first thing—it isn’t sealed,”
said Kate; “and it is written with a lead pencil, too—I don’t think
that’s fair.”

She opened the billet, and read:—

    “Miss Jenny Marsh requests the pleasure of Miss Katharine
    Sedgwick’s company at a husking party on Friday evening.

    “Oct. 16th.”

The notes addressed to Ronald and Otis were in the same form as Kate’s.
The invitation was quite gratifying to all of the children, and the
proposed party occupied a large share of their thoughts and tongues, for
the rest of the day. Their ardor was somewhat dampened, however, by Mrs.
Page, who told them she thought a storm was near, which might interfere
with their arrangements.

“I don’t see any signs of a storm—I think it looks real pleasant,” said
Kate.

“The water boiled away from the potatoes very fast, this noon, and that
is a pretty good sign of rain,” replied Mrs. Page.

“I don’t see what that has to do with rain,” said Ronald.

“I can’t explain it very clearly,” replied Mrs. Page, “but I know it is
so. I suppose there is something peculiar in the state of the
atmosphere, just before a storm, which makes boiling water evaporate, or
fly off into steam, more rapidly than at other times.”

The sun rose clear, the next morning, and the children laughed at Mrs.
Page for her prediction of rain. But in an hour or two, clouds began to
gather, and early in the afternoon a heavy rain commenced. The children
came home from school, wet, disappointed, and cross. Every thing seemed
to go wrong with them, the rest of the day. Kate had wet her feet, and a
grumbling tooth-ache admonished her that she had taken cold. Otis had
left his new kite out doors, and found the paper upon it reduced to a
handful of pulp, when he came home. The cows chose the luckless day to
take a stroll into the neighbors’ enclosures, and led Ronald on a long
and provoking tramp through the wet grass and soft, spongy lowlands, in
search of them. Nor did Oscar escape his share of the ill-luck which
seemed to brood over the household; for while milking, one of the cows,
nettled perhaps by her long walk and the unpleasant state of the
weather, gave him a slap across his eyes with her wet tail that almost
took away his sight for a few minutes, at the same time leaving upon his
face an embrocation that was not exactly calculated to soothe his
ruffled feelings.

“What is the matter? have you all got the blues?” inquired Marcus, at
the tea-table, as he observed how gloomy and silent the younger portion
of the family appeared.

“O dear, I should think this horrid weather was enough to give any one
the blues,” exclaimed Kate.

“It doesn’t affect me very unpleasantly,” replied Marcus.

“Well, you don’t care anything about the husking party, I suppose,” said
Kate.

“Oh, it’s the disappointment, and not the weather, that troubles you,”
observed Marcus.

“Not altogether that, but I think it’s too bad we can’t go to-night,”
replied Kate.

“It _is_ too bad that all the affairs of this world can’t be ordered to
suit your convenience,” added Marcus.

“No, I don’t wish that; but when I make up my mind to go any where, I do
want to go,” said Kate.

“Which is pretty much the same thing as wishing that Providence would
lay all his plans with special reference to your private interests,
without regard to the rest of the world.”

Kate made no reply, but Ronald came to her rescue.

“I don’t believe anybody wants it to rain, now,” he said; “the crops are
all in, and what good-will it do?”

“I think the owners of mills on the rivers could give you a good reason
why it ought to rain now,” replied Marcus; “and perhaps we should find
another reason at the bottom of our wells, after we have used up all the
water, a few months hence.”

“Well, then, I don’t think it need rain so much at a time,” said Ronald.
“Just hear how it’s pouring down now, and it has been raining so almost
all the afternoon.”

“How much water do you suppose has fallen?” inquired Marcus.

“About a foot, I guess,” replied Ronald.

“A foot of rain!” exclaimed Marcus, with astonishment.

“Well, half a foot, certainly,” said Ronald.

“No; halve it again, and you will come nearer to the truth,” added
Marcus.

“What, only three inches? it’s more than that, I know,” said Ronald.

“I doubt whether you have any idea how much three inches of rain is,”
replied Marcus. “After tea we will go into a little calculation about
it.”

When the tea table was cleared away, Marcus proposed that all the
children should provide themselves with paper or slates, and see if they
could ascertain how much water had fallen in Highburg that day.

“We will assume,” he said, “that three inches of rain has fallen, on a
level, which I think may be very near the true quantity. The town
contains about thirty square miles. Now, the first question is, how many
hogsheads of water have fallen on this surface, to-day?”

For a few moments nothing was heard but the clicking and scratching of
pencils, and the rustling of the leaves of the arithmetic, by those who
were not quite sure they knew the “tables.” Those who finished the work
first were requested to keep silent till the others had got through.
When all were ready, the answers were read off. The solutions of Marcus,
Oscar and Kate agreed, and were assumed to be correct; while those of
Ronald and Otis were different, and were voted incorrect. Marcus then
proposed several other questions in regard to the rain, which led to a
series of calculations. The children soon became quite interested in the
problems, and were not a little surprised at the facts brought out.
Marcus noted down the several answers, on a clean sheet of paper, and
the following is a copy of the record:—


                  “WHAT THE CLOUDS DID IN HALF A DAY.


“The water that has fallen this afternoon and evening, in this town
alone, would fill 24,826,775 hogsheads.

“It would measure 209,088,000 cubic feet.

“Its weight is 5,833,928 tons.

“Were this water all in a pond, thirty feet deep, it would be sufficient
to float 3,484 vessels, allowing 2,000 square feet to each, or about
one-sixth of all the steam and sailing vessels of every class in the
United States.

“It would take a man 13,792 years to distribute this water, with a
watering pot, supposing he distributed 6 hogsheads a day, and worked 300
days in a year.

“To distribute it in the same time as the clouds, half a day, would
require 8,275,590 men, or more than twice as many as voted at the
Presidential election of 1856, in the United States.

“It would take $6,206,692 to pay these men for their services, at the
rate of $1.50 per day.

“If this water had all fallen to the earth in one solid mass, from a
height of one mile, it would have struck the ground with a force of
3,389,512,500 tons.”

“There,” said Marcus, after reading aloud the foregoing record, “who
would have imagined that the clouds were carrying on such an extensive
business as that? Isn’t it wonderful? And then just think that this
storm has extended over perhaps half of the United States. What a deluge
of water must have fallen! And this, you must remember, is an account of
only one storm—only three inches of rain, out of thirty or forty that we
have every year.”

“Why! do we have as much rain as that in a year?” inquired Kate.

“Yes,” replied Marcus, “our average in this part of Vermont is, I
believe, about thirty-two inches, including snow reduced to water. Along
the sea coast they have more—in Boston, for instance, about forty
inches. There are some parts of the world where they have almost as many
feet of rain as we have inches, and nearly all of it falls in about two
months of the year, too.”[4]

Footnote 4:

  According to Prof. Guyot, rain falls at Paramaribo, in Dutch Guiana,
  to the amount of 229 inches, or 19 feet, annually. There is a place in
  Brazil where 276 inches, or 23 feet, have fallen in a year. But the
  greatest quantity ever observed is at an elevated point in British
  India, south of Bombay, where the enormous amount of 302 inches, or
  over 25 feet, has fallen in a year. At Cayenne, 21 inches of rain have
  been known to fall in a single day, or nearly as much as falls in a
  whole year in the northern latitudes. The annual average fall in
  tropical America, is 115 inches; in temperate America, 39 inches. The
  average for the entire surface of the globe is about five feet. These
  figures may afford the young arithmetician a basis for a variety of
  curious calculations, some rainy day, when he is at a loss for
  amusement, and is disposed to look a little more curiously into the
  wonderful results of “the rain power.”

“What do people do there? I should think they would be all washed away,”
said Kate.

“No,” said Marcus, “it isn’t so bad as it seems. It is soon over with,
and they have more pleasant days in the year than we do. I suppose they
pity us because we have so many stormy days, and yet get so little rain
after all. Besides, they know about when their rainy days are coming,
and can be prepared for them.”

“But, after all,” said Aunt Fanny, “I think our arrangement of the
weather is best, if it does sometimes interfere with our plans. We
generally have all the rain we want, and it is given to us a little at a
time, as we need it. This is better for us and for vegetation than to
have all our rain fall in two months of the year, and then to have three
or four times as much as we really need.”

“Then why doesn’t God make it rain so every where, if that way is best?”
inquired Ronald.

“For wise and good reasons, no doubt,” replied Aunt Fanny. “What is best
for the temperate zones may not be best for the tropics. People who go
from this latitude to tropical countries find the rainy season very
unhealthy, but it is different with those who were born there.”

“I suppose one object of these heavy rains between the tropics is to
supply the great rivers of South America and Africa,” said Marcus. “We
all know how Egypt is fertilized by the overflowing of the Nile; but the
Nile would not overflow were it not for these immense rains in the
country where it rises. So with the great rivers of South America, which
overflow in the rainy season, and form inland seas, that serve as
reservoirs in the dry months.”

“And it is so with all the rivers in the world—they are nothing but
drains to carry away the surplus rain-water,” said Mrs. Page.

“Well,” said Marcus, glancing at the figures before him, “we have
ascertained that nearly six million tons of water have fallen in our
town to-day. Otis, can you explain how this immense body of water was
raised into the air?”

“I can explain it,” said Kate, seeing that her brother hesitated.

“Let Otis try first,” replied Marcus.

“Was it drawn up from the ocean by the sun?” inquired Otis.

“Yes, that is the correct explanation,” continued Marcus. “Now, Kate,
can you tell us any more about it?”

“The heat of the sun,” said Kate, “causes a vapor to go up into the air
from the ocean, and lakes, and rivers, and from everything that contains
water. This is called evaporation. You can’t see this vapor, as it flies
away into the air, but when the atmosphere grows cold, it forms clouds,
and falls in rain.”

“I should think the vapor would all dry up, and be lost, when the air is
so warm,” said Ronald.

“What do you mean by drying up?” inquired Marcus.

“Why, you know,—I mean drying up,—I can’t think of any other way to
explain it,” replied Ronald.

“When the water in a puddle dries up,” said Marcus, “it flies into the
air, in the form of a vapor, and that is evaporation. That is all the
drying up there is about it. The air steals the water from the puddle,
and then keeps it a close prisoner till the cold releases it. The water
doesn’t dry up again in the air, but remains there. The warmer the air,
the more water it will hold. In the tropics, where they have such fierce
heats, the air is always full of moisture, and the plants draw it out by
means of their large leaves, and so they manage to flourish the year
round, although they have no rain or even clouds for months in
succession. It is so with us, on a very sultry day,—there is more water
than usual in the air, at such a time, although we cannot see it. Now,
Kate, can you explain why this vapor which heat produces, flies away to
the region of the clouds?”

“Because it is lighter than the air,” replied Kate.

“Right,” said Marcus.

“You said you couldn’t see this moisture rise from the earth,” said Aunt
Fanny, “but that is not always the case. We see it in our breath, on a
cold day, when it looks like steam issuing from our mouths. I have seen
a river steaming as though there were a fire under it, in a very cold
day, before ice had formed over it. We see this process going on, too,
in the vapors or fogs which often collect over ponds, and rivers, and
the ocean. But commonly, as Kate says, we see nothing of these vapors
until they are condensed into clouds by the cold air above, although
they are continually flying off from our bodies, and from the ground,
and every thing that grows in it. When we hang out our clothes to dry,
after washing them, the water in them goes to help make clouds.”

“There is one other agent in this business, that has not been
mentioned,” said Marcus. “The sun draws the water, the atmosphere holds
it as in a sponge, and the cold squeezes the sponge and returns the
water to the earth. But the rain is not needed where it is first
collected—it must be transported to distant parts of the earth; and how
is this done?”

“By the winds,” replied Oscar.

“Yes,” resumed Marcus, “the winds are the great water-carriers, that
distribute the rain over the earth. Here, then, we have the whole list
of forces employed in this wonderful rain power, viz.:

“1. The sun, to draw the water by its heat.

“2. The atmosphere, to hold it.

“3. The winds, to transport it over the continents.

“4. The cold, to discharge it from the clouds when it has reached its
destination.”[5]

Footnote 5:

  Strictly speaking, these agents may be reduced to two; for the wind is
  only air in motion, and cold is not a substance, but merely the
  absence of heat, as darkness is the absence of light.

“How does the cold make the rain fall?” inquired Ronald.

“It contracts the air,” replied Marcus, “and the vapor is consequently
condensed, or crowded together, so that its particles unite and form
drops of rain, which are heavier than the air, and fall to the earth. As
I said before, the atmosphere may be compared to a sponge, which holds a
certain quantity of water, in minute particles. When the air sponge is
contracted, these particles mingle together and run out, and then it
rains.”

“What a squeezing the sponge must have had to-day!” exclaimed Ronald.

“When the vapor freezes before it falls to the earth,” said Kate, “it
becomes snow; and when very cold and very hot and moist air come
together, they make hail, or ice.”

“I know a riddle about that,” said Ronald, repeating:—

                   “My father is the Northern Wind,
                     My mother’s name was Water:
                    Old Parson Winter married them,
                     And I’m their hopeful daughter.”

“Did you know that snow-flakes are usually crystals of regular and
beautiful forms?” inquired Marcus.

[Illustration]

Kate and Oscar had read of this, but it was new to the other children.
Marcus took down a volume from the library, and showed to them some
drawings of these snow crystals, as seen under a microscope, a few of
which are here given. There is an endless variety of these crystals, the
most beautiful of which are found in the polar regions; but sometimes
the flakes present no traces of crystallization.

“My geography says it never rains in the Great Desert of Sahara; what is
the reason of that?” inquired Ronald.

“The Sahara,” replied Marcus, “is a vast ocean of sand, in the torrid
zone. The air which arises from it is so scorching hot, that it burns
up, as it were, the clouds of rain that blow towards it from the
Mediterranean, as soon as they come within its reach. There are several
other deserts in Africa, and in North and South America. Some of these
are cut off from their supply of rain by mountains. When the clouds come
in contact with a chain of high mountains, they are driven up their
sides, into a colder region, and the vapor is pretty thoroughly wrung
out of them. By the time the current of wind reaches the other side of
the mountains, the clouds have all disappeared, and there is nothing
left but a cold, dry air. That explains why it is that there is a desert
region on the western coast of South America, on the very borders of the
Pacific Ocean. The eastern sides of the Andes rob the clouds of all the
rain brought from the Atlantic by the trade wind, and as the dry wind
keeps on its course, the vapors of the Pacific are driven back to the
ocean, before they can discharge themselves. Thus there is a paradise on
one side of the mountains, and a desert on the other.”

“Five minutes of nine,” said Mrs. Page, warningly.

“Is it so late?” inquired Marcus. “Well, we will have a bit of poetry to
wind up with, and I will appoint Kate to read it aloud, as it is a
beautiful piece, and I’m afraid none of the rest of us would do it
justice.”

“O, you flatterer!” exclaimed Kate.

“No, it isn’t flattery,—it _is_ a capital poem, if I’m any judge,” added
Marcus, turning over the leaves of a book in search of the piece. “It’s
by Bryant—ah, here it is. Now, Miss Kate, let us hear what the poet says
about rain, so that we may have something pleasant to dream about, when
we go to bed.”

Kate took the book, and read in an admirable manner the following
lines:—


                             A RAIN DREAM.

                       BY WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.

           THESE strifes, these tumults of the noisy world,
         Where Fraud, the coward, tracks his prey by stealth,
         And Strength, the ruffian, glories in his guilt,
         Oppress the heart with sadness. Oh, my friend,
         In what serener mood we look upon
         The gloomiest aspects of the elements
         Among the woods and fields! Let us awhile,
         As the slow wind is rolling up the storm,
         In fancy leave this maze of dusty streets,
         For ever shaken by the importunate jar
         Of commerce, and upon the darkening air
         Look from the shelter of our rural home.

           Who is not awed that listens to the Rain
         Sending his voice before him? Mighty Rain!
         The upland steeps are shrouded by their mists;
         The vales are gloomy with thy shade; the pools
         No longer glimmer, and the silvery streams
         Darken to veins of lead at thy approach.
         Oh, mighty Rain! already thou art here;
         And every roof is beaten by thy streams,
         And as thou passest, every glassy spring
         Grows rough, and every leaf in all the woods
         Is struck and quivers. All the hilltops slake
         Their thirst from thee; a thousand languishing fields,
         A thousand fainting gardens are refreshed;
         A thousand idle rivulets start to speed,
         And with the graver murmur of the storm
         Blend their light voices, as they hurry on.

           Thou fill’st the circle of the atmosphere
         Alone; there is no living thing abroad,
         No bird to wing the air, nor beast to walk
         The field; the squirrel in the forest seeks
         His hollow tree; the marmot of the field
         Has scampered to his den; the butterfly
         Hides under her broad leaf; the insect crowds
         That made the sunshine populous, lie close
         In their mysterious shelters, whence the sun
         Will summon them again. The mighty Rain
         Holds the vast empire of the sky alone.

           I shut my eyes, and see, as in a dream,
         The friendly clouds drop down spring violets
         And summer columbines, and all the flowers
         That tuft the woodland floor, or overarch
         The streamlet:—spiky grass for genial June,
         Brown harvests for the waiting husbandman,
         And for the woods a deluge of fresh leaves.

           I see these myriad drops that slake the dust,
         Gathered in glorious streams, or rolling blue
         In billows on the lake or on the deep,
         And bearing navies. I behold them change
         To threads of crystal as they sink in earth,
         And leave its stains behind, to rise again
         In pleasant nooks of verdure, where the child,
         Thirsty with play, in both his little hands
         Shall take the cool clear water, raising it
         To wet his pretty lips. To-morrow noon
         How proudly will the water-lily ride
         The brimming pool, o’erlooking, like a queen,
         Her circle of broad leaves. In lonely wastes,
         When next the sunshine makes them beautiful,
         Gay troops of butterflies shall light to drink
         At the replenished hollows of the rock.

           Now slowly falls the dull blank night, and still,
         All through the starless hours, the mighty Rain
         Smites with perpetual sound the forest leaves,
         And beats the matted grass, and still the earth
         Drinks the unstinted bounty of the clouds,
         Drinks for her cottage wells, her woodland brooks,
         Drinks for the springing trout, the toiling bee
         And brooding bird, drinks for her tender flowers,
         Tall oaks, and all the herbage of her hills.

           A melancholy sound is in the air,
         A deep sigh in the distance, a shrill wail
         Around my dwelling. ’Tis the wind of night;
         A lonely wanderer between earth and cloud,
         In the black shadow and the chilly mist,
         Along the streaming mountain side, and through
         The dripping woods, and o’er the plashy fields,
         Roaming and sorrowing still, like one who makes
         The journey of life alone, and nowhere meets
         A welcome or a friend, and still goes on
         In darkness. Yet awhile, a little while,
         And he shall toss the glittering leaves in play,
         And dally with the flowers, and gaily lift
         The slender herbs, pressed low by weight of rain,
         And drive, in joyous triumph, through the sky,
         White clouds, the laggard remnants of the storm.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             CHAPTER VIII.

                            INSUBORDINATION.


IT was a cherished opinion with Marcus, that the best government for a
child is that which teaches him to govern himself. He had derived this
notion from his mother and aunt, both of whom, in all their intercourse
with the young, had endeavored to keep it in mind. Marcus had put this
theory in practice, to some extent, in the management of Ronald, and not
without success. He anticipated a still greater triumph of this
principle, however, with Oscar, whose age, and peculiar circumstances,
seemed favorable to the experiment. Accordingly, instead of fixing metes
and bounds for Oscar, and hampering him with set rules and commands,
Marcus usually made known his wishes in the form of suggestions, advice,
etc., taking it for granted that his will, plainly declared, would be
regarded as law by his cousin. And so it was, for a few weeks. But
gradually a change came over Oscar. He still attended faithfully to his
work and studies, but began to manifest some impatience of control in
other matters, and to take advantage of the liberty accorded to him. It
was evident that he was falling into the notion that, aside from his
stated work and his lessons, he could do pretty much as he pleased.

Marcus noticed this change with no little anxiety and regret. He began
to fear that he should be obliged to abandon the self-government theory,
at least with Oscar. He kept his uneasiness to himself for a time, but
as the evil manifestly increased, he at length broke the subject to his
mother. It was at the close of a mild October afternoon. Supper was
finished, the cows were milked, and as dusk approached, Oscar was seen
to go over towards Mr. Hapley’s, and soon after re-appeared, with Sam,
with whom he walked rapidly towards the village.

“Mother, how do you think Oscar is getting on? Does he do as well as you
expected?” inquired Marcus, as he entered the house, after observing his
cousin’s movements.

“Why, yes, I do not see but that he is doing pretty well,” replied Mrs.
Page. “He works better than I supposed he would, and he gets his lessons
well, too.”

“But don’t you think he is a little too much inclined to have his own
way?” inquired Marcus.

“I have suspected it was so,” replied his mother; “but as you have had
the principal management of him, you can judge best about that.”

“For instance,” resumed Marcus, “I gave him to understand, when he first
came here, that we didn’t want him to have anything to do with Sam
Hapley.”

“So did I,” interrupted Mrs. Page.

“I never actually forbade him to associate with Sam,” continued Marcus,
“but Oscar knows what he is, and he knows better than to go with him.
And yet they are getting quite intimate. They were off together nearly
all the afternoon, yesterday, hunting squirrels, as Oscar says; and this
evening he has gone off with him again, notwithstanding I have told him
two or three times that we all made it a rule not to be away from home
after dark, except by special arrangement.”

“I told him the same thing, the last evening he was out,” added Mrs.
Page.

“He has gone contrary to my wishes in several other matters,” resumed
Marcus. “There’s tobacco, for one thing. I am satisfied that he is
beginning to use it again; you know he formed the habit in Boston.”

“Yes, but I hope he isn’t sliding into it again,” said Mrs. Page.

“I think he is,” replied Marcus; “in fact, I am very certain he is, for
I have smelt tobacco in his breath, several times. I have talked to him
about the bad effects of tobacco, but didn’t let him know that I
suspected he used it. Last Saturday I wrote something on the subject,
and addressed it to him, and dropped it into our letter-box. I have got
a copy of it—here it is.”

Marcus took from his pocket a note, and read it aloud. As it may
possibly interest some young reader who is trying to cultivate an
acquaintance with tobacco, it is here given entire.


                       “WHY I DON’T LIKE TOBACCO.

    “It does a man no good.

    “It is a powerful poison.

    “It is injurious to the health, and sometimes fatal to the life,
    especially of the young.

    “It weakens and injures the mind.

    “It begets an unnatural and burning thirst, which water will not
    quench, and thus prepares the way for the intoxicating cup.

    “It makes a man a slave to its use, so it is almost impossible
    for him to abandon it, after a few years.

    “It is offensive to all who do not use it.

    “It is a letter of introduction to bad associates.

    “The use of it is a filthy habit.

    “It is an expensive habit.

    “The only real advantage arising from the use of tobacco that I
    ever heard of happened to one of a party of sailors who were
    wrecked upon the Feejee islands. The savages killed and cooked
    them all, anticipating a delightful feast; but one of the tars
    tasted so strongly of tobacco, that they couldn’t eat him, and
    so he escaped a burial in their stomachs. As I intend to keep
    clear of cannibals, I don’t think this solitary fact offers me
    any inducement to steep and pickle myself in tobacco; therefore
    I intend to remain an

                                          =ANTI-PUFFER-AND-CHEWER.”=

“I’m afraid it didn’t do much good,” resumed Marcus, somewhat sadly. “I
smelt tobacco in his breath again to-day.”

“Well,” said Mrs. Page, after a pause, “it will never do to let him go
on in this way. I think it will be necessary to tell him very plainly
and decidedly, that if he will not restrain himself, we must do it for
him. One or the other he _must_ submit to, or go back to the Reform
School, and the sooner he understands this, the better it will be for us
all.”

The entrance of the other children put a stop to the conversation; but
Mrs. Page’s last remark confirmed the conclusion to which Marcus had
already reluctantly arrived, and left him no longer in doubt as to the
proper course to pursue.

The lamps had been lit nearly an hour when Oscar came in, that evening.
Nothing was said to him about his absence at the time; but the next day,
taking him alone, Marcus talked long and earnestly to him about the
course he was pursuing, and told him very decidedly that he could go on
in this way no longer. “If we will not put ourselves under restraint,”
he said, “others must do it for us. It is so in society, in the school,
in the family, and everywhere else. The best form of government is
self-government, and there is little need of any other, where that is;
but if a man wont practise that, then the strong arm of the law must
take him in hand, and compel him to do what he could have done much more
pleasantly of his own free will.”

Oscar attempted no justification of himself, neither did he acknowledge
that he had done wrong. He listened in silence to Marcus, with an
expression upon his countenance that at once puzzled and disappointed
the latter. It were difficult to say whether shame, sadness or
sullenness mingled most largely in the feelings mirrored in his face.

There was a marked change in Oscar’s demeanor for several days after
this event, though not precisely such a change as Marcus desired to see.
He was silent, and carried a moody and sullen look upon his face, which
did not escape the notice even of the children, although they knew
nothing of its cause. Marcus treated him as kindly as ever; but how he
longed to look into that troubled heart, and read the thoughts and
feelings that were stirring its depths!

About this time a new wonder suddenly appeared in town. The children
came home from school with glowing accounts of a mammoth poster or
show-bill exhibited outside of the post office, and covering a good
portion of one side of the building. It was printed in all kinds of gay
colors, and besprinkled from top to bottom with pictures, representing
men, women and horses performing all manner of wonderful feats. They
also brought home some small bills that had been scattered among the
children. It was very seldom that a circus found its way into the small
and secluded village of Highburg, but it was pretty evident that one was
coming now, “for one day only,” and that the children were well-nigh
bewitched with the highly-colored descriptions of the entertainment
given by the great poster.

There was a decided drawing down of faces, when Mrs. Page informed the
excited group that she did not consider the circus a suitable place for
them to visit, and could not consent to their going. Some of them were
even disposed to question her position.

“Why,” said Otis, “mother would let us go, if she were here.”

“I do not know about that,” replied Mrs. Page; “and therefore I must act
according to my own judgment.”

“I don’t see what harm there could be in our going just once,” remarked
Kate.

“We ought not to go to an improper place even ‘just once,’” replied Mrs.
Page. “Circus performers are generally a low class of men and women;
their entertainments are low and degrading; and the dregs of the
community usually gather around them. Those are the reasons why I do not
wish you to go to such a place.”

“You’ve been to the circus, haven’t you, Oscar?” inquired Ronald.

“Yes, I have been a good many times,” replied Oscar.

“And you agree with me, in your opinion of it, don’t you?” inquired Mrs.
Page.

“I don’t know—I always liked to go pretty well,” replied Oscar.

This remark gave Mrs. Page much uneasiness, and she took the first
opportunity, when Oscar was alone, to caution him against saying
anything in the presence of the children that would excite their desires
to go to the circus; a request which he promised to comply with.

The circus paraded through the town on the appointed morning, with its
wagon-load of noisy horn-blowers and drum-beaters, and its procession of
fancy carriages and fine horses. The great tent was pitched, in the
presence of all the idlers of the village, and in due time the door was
opened to the public, and the performance commenced.

Oscar finished his work and lessons as early as possible, in the
afternoon, and then quietly slipped away from home, without the
knowledge of any one. He turned his steps towards the village, where the
circus was encamped. He wished merely to see what was going on, and did
not intend to venture within the tent, since his aunt was so strongly
opposed to such places of amusement. On reaching the circus grounds, he
found a motley crowd assembled, composed chiefly of young men and
half-grown boys, with a sprinkling of women and young children. There
were few representatives of the better class of the population to be
seen; but that marvel of laziness, old ’Siah Stebbins, was there,
leaning against a fence, with his hands in his pockets; and so was
Gavett, the man who once served three months in the county jail for
stealing wood; and so were poor Silly John, the pauper, and Tim Hallard,
the drunkard, and Dick Adams, the loafer _par excellence_, and little
Bob Gooden, swaggering about with a cigar in his mouth, and Sam Hapley,
swearing faster than ever, and his brother Henry, eagerly taking lessons
in vice. All these were on the field, and others of like character. Some
of the boys were mimicking performances they had witnessed inside the
tent—turning somersets, standing on their hands, leaping, twisting their
bodies into unaccountable shapes, etc.

[Illustration]

Two donkeys belonging to the circus, mounted by boys, were driven around
the field at a furious pace. A donkey being a novel sight to most of the
people, the race attracted much attention from the outsiders, and served
admirably to tole them into the enclosure—the object intended.

As Oscar was sauntering about, he came unexpectedly upon Otis, who, with
several others of the academy boys, hastened over to the circus, as soon
as dismissed, “to see what was going on.”

“What, are you here? I thought aunt told you to go right home when
school was dismissed,” said Oscar.

“I’m going right home,” replied Otis, adding, to himself, “I rather
think I’ve just as good a right here as you have.”

A moment after, as Otis was still standing by the side of Oscar, there
came along a boy about the age of the latter, foppishly dressed, and
with a bold face and a careless, swaggering air. His eyes met Oscar’s,
and there was an instant recognition.

“What, is that you, Alf!” exclaimed Oscar.

“Halloo, Oscar, is that you!” cried the other.

“How came _you_ here—do you belong to the circus?” inquired Oscar.

“Yes,” replied the other; “but how came _you_ here? I thought you were
in the house of correction, or some such place. How did you get out of
that last scrape, say? O, I remember, they sent you to the Reform
School, didn’t they?”

Oscar, confused and distressed by this unexpected exposure, made signs
to the other to desist, and attempted to turn off the affair as a joke.
The strange remark of the strange boy, however, attracted the attention
of Otis and several others of Oscar’s acquaintances who were standing
by, and set them to wondering.

The real name of Oscar’s new-found acquaintance was Alfred Walton, but
he figured on the circus bills as “Master Paulding.” For years the two
boys lived near each other, in Boston, and had been very intimate, their
tastes and habits being much alike. The hotel and stables kept by
Alfred’s step-father had been one of Oscar’s favorite resorts, and there
he learned many of the bad lessons which he was now trying to forget. He
had heard nothing from Alfred for a long time, but now learned from him
that he quarrelled with his step-father and ran away from home five or
six months previous, and being familiar with horses, had since followed
the career of a circus rider.

“And look here,” added Alfred, taking Oscar aside, “if you want a
chance, I’ll speak a good word for you to the old man. I shouldn’t
wonder if he would take you on trial—I bet I can put him up to it. We’ve
got a good company—they are a high old set of fellows, I tell you.”

“O no, I can’t join you—I’ve engaged to stay here two or three years,”
replied Oscar.

“Pooh, never mind that—you can slip off easily enough, just as I did,”
said Alfred, who seemed to have no idea that any thing but force could
hold a person to an engagement with which he was dissatisfied.

“But I don’t want to slip off—I like here, well enough,” added Oscar.

“Then you must have altered amazingly, if you can content yourself in
such a horribly dull hole as this,” rejoined Alfred. “Why, I’d hang
myself before I’d stay here three weeks. Come, you like to see the world
as well as the rest of us do. Say you’ll go, and I’ll speak to the old
man. He’ll give you twelve or fifteen dollars a month, as soon as you
get broke in a little. That’s better than you can do here, I know. What
do you get now, any how?”

“I don’t have wages—father pays my board, and I’m going to school this
winter,” replied Oscar.

“Well, I should think you’d rather be your own man, and have a chance to
see the world, than be cooped up in the woods here, two or three years,”
added Alfred. “But come in, or you wont get a seat—performances begin in
five minutes,” he added, drawing out a watch, to which was attached a
flashy chain.

“No, I didn’t intend to go in—the folks wont know where I am,” replied
Oscar.

“Yes, you are going in, too—it wont cost you anything—I’ll put you
through,” said Alfred, pushing Oscar towards the door.

Oscar was unable to withstand the pressing invitation of his old
comrade, and suffered himself to be led into the enclosure, where he
remained through the entire performance, which did not close until
nearly dark. His prolonged absence was noticed at home, and led to
unpleasant suspicions; but as Otis remained silent, for fear of exposing
himself, nothing definite was known of his whereabouts.

Oscar hurried home with many misgivings, after the exhibition had
concluded, and was agreeably surprised to find the supper table still
standing for him, and was yet more gratified that no questions were
asked in relation to his absence. When he went up to bed, however,
Marcus accompanied him to his chamber, and the following conversation
took place:—

“Oscar, where have you been this afternoon?”

“Over to the circus.”

“Did you go in, or only remain outside?”

“I went in.”

“I am very sorry to hear it, and surprised too. You knew it was much
against our wishes, did you not?”

Oscar made no reply.

“You knew neither mother nor I would have consented to your going to
such a place, did you not?” continued Marcus.

“I supposed you wouldn’t.”

“Then why did you go? Do you intend to pay any regard to our wishes, or
do you mean to have your own way in everything?”

Oscar remained silent.

“Do you remember what I said to you a few days ago, about your
behavior?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Well, I suppose all it is necessary for me to say now, is, that I
intend to abide strictly by what I said at that time. Your going to the
circus was to all intents an act of wilful disobedience, and as a
punishment, I shall have to declare you a prisoner for the rest of the
week.”

Oscar did not appear much pleased with this announcement, and something
like an expression of anger flitted across his countenance, but he made
no reply.

“I do not intend to make you a _close_ prisoner,” continued Marcus. “I
shall let you go on parole, if you agree to that arrangement. I suppose
you know what that means.”

“It means that I can go at large, if I’ll agree not to go off,” said
Oscar.

“Yes,” replied Marcus, “you have the idea. When a prisoner of war is
released on parole, he gives his word of honor that he will not go
beyond certain fixed limits, and that he will not take part in any
hostile act. As we are not at war, we can dispense with the latter part
of the bargain. All I shall require is, that you will give me your word
of honor not to go beyond certain limits I shall name, without special
leave from me, during the rest of this week. You can have your choice
between this, and being kept a close prisoner in the house. Which do you
choose?”

“To go on parole.”

“And do you give your word of honor?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Well, you may consider yourself on parole, from this time,” added
Marcus, and he mentioned the limits beyond which he was not to pass.

“Supposing I should go beyond the limits—what then?” inquired Oscar, who
was beginning to regard the deprivation with curiosity rather than
displeasure.

“I can suppose no such thing,” replied Marcus. “The parole system takes
it for granted that when a man deliberately gives his word of honor that
he will do a certain thing, he will regard his promise as sacred and
inviolable, come what may. If it were not so, there would be an end to
the parole, very quick. I believe it seldom happens that a man is found
base enough to abuse the parole. I read an account a few days ago,
however, in the Life of Napoleon, of some soldiers who broke their
parole, but they were Turks. During one of Napoleon’s campaigns in
Syria, he captured ten or twelve hundred Turkish troops, and released
them on parole. Soon after, they were again taken prisoners, while
defending a city. A council of war was held, and after considering the
matter three days, it was unanimously decided that the prisoners must
die. Accordingly they were led out in small groups and shot; and it is
said that the pyramid of their bones remains in the desert to this day.
But this is a very rare case, and I shall take it for granted that you
will keep your promise. In fact, I have so little doubt of it, that I
shall not watch you in the least, nor take any pains to find out where
you go. If you go outside of the limits, I probably shall not know it,
unless I discover it accidentally.”

“Well, you may depend on my keeping within the bounds, unless I should
forget myself,” replied Oscar.

Oscar faithfully kept his parole, through the two remaining days of the
week. Under the kind and forbearing yet firm treatment he had received
from Marcus, his feelings now began to relent, somewhat, and, despite
the mitigating circumstances in the case, which he had not explained to
any one, he felt some reproaches of conscience for the course he had
pursued. On Saturday afternoon, he half resolved to acknowledge his
fault to Marcus, freely and frankly, and ask forgiveness; but when the
opportunity came to do so, a false pride overcame the better promptings
of his heart, and stifled the words that were trembling on his lips. The
quick eye of Marcus, however, perceived that a change had been wrought
in the feelings of his pupil, and greatly did he rejoice at it.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER IX.

                            CORRESPONDENCE.


THE “Excelsior Letter-writing Society” had now been in operation several
weeks, and had thus far proved a popular and useful institution. The
letter-box was regularly patronized by all its members, but one of them
having brought upon himself the dire penalty of exclusion from it, and
he for only a single day. I do not intend to expose the delinquent, but
justice requires me to say it was neither Oscar nor Ronald. The letters
which passed through the domestic post office were as various as the
writers and their moods. Some were long, and some brief; some serious,
and others funny. There were letters advisory, admonitory, commendatory,
critical, mysterious, romantic, and quizzical; but none that were
disrespectful or unkind, care having been taken to guard against these
faults.

A few days after the events narrated in the preceding chapter, Marcus
received a letter which afforded him peculiar gratification. It was from
Oscar, and was as follows:

                                                    “Nov. 6th, 185—.

    “DEAR MARCUS,—I think you would not have blamed me so much as
    you did for going to the circus, last Thursday, if you had known
    all the circumstances. I did not intend to go inside, when I
    went over to the village; but I met a boy there named Alfred
    Walton, that I used to be very intimate with in Boston. He
    belongs to the company, and tried to persuade me to join them,
    but I told him I did not wish to. Then he insisted upon my going
    in, and would not take no for an answer. He got me inside the
    tent, before I could get away from him. He told the doorkeeper I
    was his friend, and he let me in without paying. I am very sorry
    I went near the circus at all; but I could not very well help
    going in, after I saw Alfred.

    “I must tell you about another thing that has troubled me a good
    deal. Alfred was mean or thoughtless enough to plague me about
    being sentenced to the Reform School, right before Otis and
    several other boys that know me. I turned it off as well as I
    could, but Otis has spoken to me about it since, and I am afraid
    he thinks there is something in it. I had to tell him what I
    suppose some people would call ‘a white lie,’ to get rid of him.
    I don’t see how I can keep the thing from coming out, unless I
    lie right up and down about it.

    “I have thought much lately of what you said about
    self-government. I like your ideas, and I mean to try to put
    them in practice. If you could give me any hints that would help
    me in making the experiment, I should be very thankful.

                                               “Yours truly, OSCAR.”

To this letter, Marcus replied as follows, at his earliest convenience:

                                            “HIGHBURG, Nov. 7, 185—.

    “DEAR COUSIN OSCAR,—I have not received a more welcome letter
    for many a day, than yours of yesterday. The extenuating
    circumstances you mention, in regard to your visit to the
    circus, change my opinion of that act very much, as you may well
    suppose; for I thought you went deliberately, and of your own
    choice. You ought to have explained this before, and I wonder
    that you did not. Still, I do not think this plea wholly excuses
    you, unless you were actually _forced_ in, which I suppose you
    do not pretend; and even in that case, you need not have
    remained in, after Alfred left you. So I must still believe that
    you were to some extent blameworthy, first, for putting yourself
    in the way of temptation by going to the circus grounds; and
    secondly, for yielding to the coaxings of your old friend. I am
    glad you see your error, and are sorry for it.

    “As to keeping certain parts of your history secret, I do not
    think it a matter of so much importance as you probably do. If
    you behave well now, and for the future, these errors will soon
    be forgotten; but if they cannot be concealed without falsehood,
    I would not attempt to hide them. I would rather acknowledge the
    facts to Otis, and appeal to his honor and generosity to keep
    them secret. I think he would not betray you.

    “I am rejoiced to learn that you mean to govern yourself. I wish
    I could help you in this noble work. You must imagine yourself a
    governor, appointed over a province. Your subjects are the
    various powers of your mind, the qualities of your heart, your
    habits, tastes, affections, etc. It is taken for granted that
    you know something of the law you are to administer. The Bible
    and your conscience will give you all the instruction you need
    on this point. The next thing to be done, is to make yourself
    thoroughly acquainted with the people of your little province.
    Who are they? What is their character? Are they a hard set to
    govern, or the contrary? How can you best manage them? This is
    _self-examination_, and without it, we can neither know
    ourselves, nor govern ourselves. Well, after we understand
    pretty well what kind of subjects we have got to deal with, the
    next thing is to apply the law to them, firmly, vigorously, with
    unwearied watchfulness, and with a determination to conquer
    them. We must persevere in this until we accomplish our purpose,
    and our rule in our own little household is securely
    established.

    “Let me give you a familiar illustration. In looking over the
    little inner kingdom I am called to rule, we will suppose that I
    find one subject that has proved quite troublesome. His real
    name is Laziness, but we will call him by his polite name, Mr.
    Ease. I can see very plainly, as I examine the past, that I owe
    to him a great many wasted hours and opportunities, and a great
    many good things _not_ done. Well, one cold winter morning, I
    astonish Mr. Ease very much by informing him, before my eyes are
    fairly open, that I intend to rise instanter. This is something
    very strange, and he begins to expostulate, and to plead for a
    few moments more in the warm bed; but before he can finish his
    plea, I am up, and half dressed. ‘You are not going to make the
    fire—your mother can do that,’ says Ease, as I go into the
    kitchen; ‘But I _am_ going to make it,’ I reply, and at it I go,
    at once. Then I go out to the barn, and see to the stock; but
    before the morning work is half done, Mr. Ease says, in his
    blandest voice, ‘Come, go into the house, and warm yourself, and
    get ready for breakfast. This is cold work—let the boys finish
    it.’ I pay no attention to his advice, but keep about my work
    until it is done, and have all the better appetite for my
    breakfast, for doing so. After that meal, Mr. Ease kindly
    reminds me that I have not read the magazine that came
    yesterday, and suggests that I might spend an hour very
    comfortably with it in the chimney corner, on such a cold
    morning. But I tell him it is a clear, bright day, and there is
    plenty of work to do, and at it I go, without further parley.
    After dinner, Mr. Ease again intrudes himself, in his blandest
    way. ‘Come,’ he says, ‘you’ve worked hard all the forenoon, now
    put the horse into the sleigh and have a ride; the afternoon is
    fine, and the sleighing excellent.’ ‘Ah, yes, the sleighing _is_
    good,’ I reply; ‘I think I’ll improve it by hauling a load or
    two of wood, and take the ride some other time.’

    “So I keep ‘snubbing’ this Mr. Ease, as coolly as you please,
    day after day. Finding he is losing his power over me, he grows
    shy and glum, and slinks away, and at length I hear but very
    little from him. He is conquered. And if I find any other
    upstarts or usurpers in my dominions, I serve them in the same
    way. If I can’t snub them into submission, as I did Mr. Ease, I
    just seize them firmly by the throat, and choke them down. That
    is the way I served Mr. Anger.

    “To do all this, you must rely upon principle, not impulse. You
    must form a fixed purpose to govern yourself, and adhere to it,
    through thick and thin. You must also be willing to submit to
    some self-denial and sacrifice. Don’t be frightened at those
    words. They look like bugbears, but after all, they are at the
    root of all our happiness. Almost our first and last experience
    of life is that of desires denied. From infancy to old age, we
    are daily and almost hourly called to sacrifice a lesser for a
    greater good; and until we yield cheerfully to this great law,
    we have not learned to live, nor have we known true happiness.
    Self-indulgence and ease make puny, vicious and unhappy men.
    Self-control and self-denial make strong and noble souls—the
    master spirits that rule the world.

    “I will add but one thought more. However painful the effort at
    self-government may be, at first, the power of habit will
    gradually render the work easy, until at length it will actually
    become a pleasure.

    “Wishing you much success in your good purpose, I remain

                                          “Your affectionate cousin,
                                                           “MARCUS.”

It was not often that so long and formal a letter as this found its way
into the family post office. Most of the missives exchanged between the
members of the society, were brief notes, a few specimens of which are
given:

    “MARCUS PAGE, ESQ.—Dear Sir,—I propose that we take the
    hay-cart, Saturday afternoon, and all hands go off after nuts.
    What say you to the plan?

                        “Yours truly, OTIS.
    “Oct. 25th.”

    “O, fie, Ronald! how could you say, ‘I intended to have wrote!’
    It is perfectly barbarous. ‘I intended to have written,’ is what
    you should have said. ‘I got my lessons’ is bad, too; you mean
    you _learned_ your lessons. Please put two t’s in regretted,
    next time, and write Friday with a capital F. But I wont play
    the critic any more, just now, for fear you might banish from
    your list of correspondents

                        “Your faithful friend, KATE.
    “Nov. 2.”

To this note Kate received the following reply, the next day:

    “O, fie, Kate! how could you say, ‘I intended to have written!’
    It is perfectly barbarous. ‘I intended to _write_’ is what you
    should have said. If you don’t believe me, I can show you the
    rule in the grammar. Don’t be afraid to ‘play the critic’—I
    _like_ to have you do it!

                        “Yours in fun, RON.
    “Nov. 3.”

Ronald was not accustomed to take things upon trust, especially from one
near his own age, when he could conveniently verify their truth for
himself. This habit led him to investigate the blunders pointed out by
Kate, and the result was, that he was able to convict his critic of a
serious grammatical error—a “turning of the tables” which he enjoyed
with a roguish zest. Kate did not need to consult the grammar, to
satisfy herself in regard to the error; for she at once recalled to mind
the rule she had learned: “All verbs expressive of hope, desire,
intention, or command, must invariably be followed by the present, and
not the perfect of the infinitive.”

The post office sometimes served as a medium through which an uneasy
conscience sought relief, as in the following:—

                                               “HIGHBURG, Oct. 26th.

    “DEAR MISS LEE,—I don’t know what you think of me, for speaking
    to you so rudely, last evening. I was only in fun, of course,
    but I suppose I carried it too far. I was sorry for it a minute
    after. I hope you will excuse me, this time, and I will be more
    careful in future.

                        “Ever yours,

                                                              KATE.”

Kate, in a merry mood, had rallied Miss Lee upon her state of
singleness, applying to her the epithet, “old maid,” and using other
expressions that were not quite proper, considering the differences
between their ages; hence this apology. Miss Lee, it should be added,
was loved and esteemed none the less by those who knew her, because of
the peculiarity of which Kate made sport. She was an especial favorite
with the children of the family, and her pleasant words and looks, her
obliging disposition, her sound advice, her clear explanations of school
lesson and other mysteries, her inexhaustible fund of anecdote and
story, and not least, the beautiful productions of her pencil and brush,
constituted an attraction which all felt and acknowledged. She had spent
many years in teaching, but had now relinquished the profession. Her
services as an artist were highly appreciated by the children, who
coaxed many a pretty drawing or painting from her portfolio. Her letters
were eagerly sought for, as they sometimes contained the fruits of her
pencil, as well as of her pen. Here is one of them:—

                                                            “Nov. 4.

    “DEAR OTIS,—Enclosed I send the drawing of the four dogs, which
    you wished me to make for your little brother. When you forward
    it to him, you had better call his attention to the dotted
    lines, otherwise he might not understand the design of the
    picture. If he should get a piece of tracing paper, he might
    easily make for himself a separate copy of each of the four
    dogs. I have not had a letter from you yet. Won’t my turn come
    soon?

                        “Your friend sincere,

                                                            “FANNY.”

Here is a copy of the picture enclosed in this letter:

[Illustration]

Thus did the domestic post office serve alike to entertain the younger
members of the family, and to educate their minds and hearts. Its
novelty had not yet begun to wear off, and it was regarded by all as one
of the established institutions of the family.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                               CHAPTER X.

                         A WOUNDED CONSCIENCE.


MRS. PAGE and Marcus were riding in the outskirts of the town, one
afternoon, when they stopped a few moments at the door of an
acquaintance—a lady named Blake. She was a widow, and had a large family
of children. One of them, a girl named Ellen, was standing near the
horse, when her mother remarked—

“I wish I could find a place for Ellen, this winter. If she couldn’t
earn anything more than her board, it would be better than nothing.”

“How old are you, Ellen?” inquired Marcus.

“Thirteen last spring,” replied the girl.

“Do you want to go away to live?” asked Mrs. Page.

“I don’t know,” replied Ellen, with considerable hesitation.

“No, she would rather stay at home,” interposed her mother; “but I think
she is getting old enough to do something for herself. She could make
herself quite useful to any one, if she tried.”

“So I should suppose,” said Mrs. Page. “Perhaps I can think of some one
who would like to take her this winter—I will let you know, if I do.”

“Mother,” said Marcus, on their way home, “wouldn’t it be a good plan
for you to take Ellen to help you, this winter? Our family is so large,
now, that I think you and Aunt Fanny ought to have some help. Ellen
could make the beds, and set the table, and wash the dishes, and do a
good deal of other work. Mrs. Lane says she is quite handy about
housework. She had the whole management of the family affairs nearly a
fortnight, last summer, when her mother was sick.”

Mrs. Page did not then make any very definite reply to this proposition,
although the same idea had occurred to herself, when Mrs. Blake spoke of
Ellen. After thinking and talking the matter over for a few days, and
making the necessary inquiries about Ellen, it was decided that she
might come to live with them for the winter, if she chose. Marcus was
accordingly despatched to inform Mrs. Blake of the opening they had made
for her daughter. The offer was gratefully accepted, especially as
Marcus assured her that Ellen would probably have time and facilities
for continuing her studies, the same as if she were attending school. It
was agreed that she should be in readiness for her new home, the next
week.

The district school which Ronald attended was now near the end of the
fall term. It was to close with a public examination and exhibition, for
which considerable preparation had been made. Several prizes were to be
awarded, for good behavior and scholarship. Among others, a favorite
book was to be given to the boy who showed the neatest kept and best
executed writing-book at the close of the term. A similar prize was
offered to the girls, and another to the scholar whose book showed the
greatest improvement, during the term. For the first-named prize Ronald
had been a candidate, until the unfortunate blotting of his book, which
threw him out of the contest. On the day before the exhibition, as the
teacher was making a final examination of the writing-books, she was
surprised and vexed to observe several fresh blots upon the book which
she supposed would take the prize. It belonged to Lewis Daniels, a boy
who sat by the side of Ronald. He denied all knowledge of the matter,
however, and could hardly believe that it was his book that was
disfigured, until he had seen it for himself. When told that these blots
had probably lost him the prize, he did not manifest much emotion; and,
indeed, he seemed to take the affair so coolly, from first to last, that
Mrs. Benham, the teacher, did not know what to think of it. She at
length determined to have some further conversation with him on the
subject, and with this purpose detained him after school was dismissed.

“Lewis,” she said, when they were alone, “to-morrow is probably the last
day that I shall ever be your teacher. I want to part pleasantly with
all my scholars, and to carry away agreeable recollections of them. But
I feel a little troubled about you. I am afraid you have not told me the
truth about your writing-book, and I can’t bear to think you are going
to bid me good-by with a falsehood in your mouth. Now if you have tried
to deceive me, I want you to confess it all, and be forgiven, for I
shall not punish you, as we are about to separate.”

Lewis colored deeply, and replied in a husky voice—

“I told you all I knew about it.”

“But you told me nothing about it,” replied Mrs. Benham, whose
suspicions were further excited by this reply.

“I know nothing about it,” added Lewis.

“Lewis Daniels,” continued the teacher, mildly, after a slight pause,
“can you look me calmly in the eye, and say that? No, I knew you could
not. You cannot act out such a black falsehood. Your manner betrays you.
Now will you acknowledge the whole truth?”

“I blotted the book myself” said Lewis, bursting into tears.

“How did it happen?” inquired Mrs. Benham.

“I did it on purpose, because I didn’t want to take the prize,” sobbed
the boy.

“That is a very singular reason—I hope you will not tell me any more
untruths about the matter,” replied the teacher, mildly, a shade of
anxiety flitting across her face.

“It is nothing but the truth, as true as I’m alive,” continued Lewis; “I
didn’t want to get the prize away from Ronald—that’s why I did it.”

“That was very generous in you, if you are telling the truth,” replied
the teacher; “but was it just to yourself? If you fairly earned the
prize, why should you give it up to another?”

“I didn’t earn it fairly,” replied Lewis, amid fresh tears and sobs. “I
thought he would get the prize, and so I blotted his book one morning,
before he got to school. You punished him for it—don’t you remember?”

Mrs. Benham did remember, and it would be hard to say whether she or her
conscience-stricken pupil suffered most at the recollection of the
trying scenes thus recalled, the mystery of which was now unfolded to
her. It was not strange that her own tears mingled with those of the
sobbing boy, for she felt that she too had erred, though she hoped
innocently.

“My poor boy, you have been most severely punished for your fault,” at
length resumed Mrs. Benham. “Conscience is a stern judge. ‘A wounded
spirit who can bear?’”

“Yes, ma’am, when you punished Ronald, and when he got up before the
school and asked your pardon”—but the penitent boy’s emotions were too
deep to allow him to finish the sentence.

“And I suppose you have been suffering more or less from this concealed
sin, every day since, now about six weeks,” said Mrs. Benham.

“Yes, ma’am,” replied Lewis. “I felt so mean that I used to keep out of
Ronald’s way as much as I could. I hated to see him. Then I tried to
treat him as well as I could, but that didn’t help me much. So I made up
my mind at last that I would serve my writing-book the same way that I
served his.”

“And did you expect to gain peace of mind in this way—by committing
another fault, and covering it over with a falsehood?” inquired the
teacher. “Your last error was almost as bad as the first. I hope this
will be a lesson to you, as long as you live. By delaying this
confession so many weeks, you have caused yourself a great deal of
suffering, and got further into trouble than you were at first. But as I
promised, I cheerfully forgive all, so far as it concerns me. Do you
think there is any one else whose forgiveness you ought to seek?”

“I suppose I ought to tell Ronald about it, and ask him to forgive me,”
replied Lewis.

“I should do so, most certainly,” said the teacher; “and you had better
see him to-night, if possible, as you may not have an opportunity to
speak with him to-morrow. Is there any one else whose forgiveness you
propose to seek?”

“I don’t know,” replied Lewis, in doubt.

“Don’t you think your Heavenly Father will expect you to confess this
matter to him, and ask his forgiveness?” inquired the teacher. “You have
sinned against him quite as much as against Ronald or me. Are you in the
habit of praying to him?”

“No, ma’am—only I say a hymn sometimes, when I go to bed,” replied
Lewis.

“I am sorry you do not pray to him,” resumed the teacher. “He made you,
and he gives you every good thing you receive, and when you do wrong, he
is grieved. I should think you would thank him every day for the
blessings he gives, and ask him for those things you need; and when you
displease him, I wonder how you can help asking him to forgive you, and
to keep you from falling into sin again. Will you join with me, now, in
seeking his forgiveness?”

Lewis bowed assent, and knelt down with his teacher, who offered a brief
and fervent prayer in his behalf, that his sins might be truly repented
of and forgiven, and that he might be kept from transgression hereafter.
She then urged him to seek the divine forgiveness, in secret prayer at
home, and with a kindly good-night, they separated.

Lewis went directly to Mrs. Page’s, where he found Ronald, in company
with the other children. After a little while, he managed to draw him
aside, saying—

“Come out this way, Ronald—I’ve got something to tell you.”

“Well, tell away,” replied Ronald.

“You know the teacher found some blots on my writing-book, this
afternoon?”

“Yes—how came they there?”

“I blotted it myself.”

“You did? Then you told a whopper.”

“I did it purposely, too.”

“Then you was a fool. Why, you might have taken the prize, if you hadn’t
done it.”

“But I did something worse than that.”

“What was it?”

“I blotted your book the other day, so I might make sure of the prize.”

“You mean——” but the hasty reply was instantly checked by a glance at
the sorrowful face before him, and Ronald stood silent and ashamed.

“I’m sorry for it, and I hope you will forgive me,” added Lewis, the
tears gathering in his eyes. “I told the teacher all about it, and she
has forgiven me.”

“O yes, I’ll forgive you, too, seeing you have owned up of your own
accord.”

“I’ve suffered enough for it to be forgiven, at any rate.”

“You blotted your book so as to be even with me? Well, that was doing
the handsome thing, any way. You might have kept dark, and got the
prize, just as easy as not. I never supposed any one blotted my book on
purpose; I thought it was an accident.”

Lewis repeated his expressions of sorrow for his offence, and received
renewed assurances of forgiveness. He then returned home with a lighter
heart than he had known for many a day.

The examination of the school, the next day, passed off very
successfully. A goodly company of visitors was present, the order and
general behavior of the scholars were excellent, the classes appeared
well, and the singing and declamations were attractive. Ronald,
unexpectedly to himself, bore off two of the honors—one for general
progress in his studies, and the other for the neatest writing-book.
Both prizes were books adapted to his age. As the writing prize was
handed to him, the committee-man who distributed the gifts, remarked
that his book was somewhat blotted; but as it had been ascertained that
it was through no fault of his, and as, saving this fault, his book
stood the highest, they had decided to award him the prize. So ended
Ronald’s last day at the district school. He was now to enter the
academy.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XI.

                          IN-DOOR AMUSEMENTS.


THE fall term of the academy closed a few days after the district
school, and Oscar, also, was released from his lessons, so that all the
young folks were now having a short vacation. Kate and Otis, however,
were greatly disappointed, on receiving a letter from their father, a
few days before the term closed, stating that they were to remain in
Highburg through the vacation, instead of visiting their home. The
serious illness of their little sister was the reason given for this new
arrangement, and as a partial offset to the disappointment, their
parents promised to make them a brief visit at the earliest possible
day.

The weather was now cold, and often dull or stormy, rendering out-door
amusements unpleasant, and much of the time impracticable. Marcus,
though busily engaged in finishing up his work for the winter, was
untiring in his efforts to relieve the disappointment of Kate and Otis,
by finding amusements for them and the other children. When the weather
would not admit of a ride in the wagon, an excursion in the woods, or a
frolic in the fields and on the hill-sides, he was always ready with
some game or amusement that could be played in the house or barn. The
long evenings, too, were beguiled with innocent and often instructive
diversions, and when the wind raved loudest without, there were no
gloomy hearts within.

“I’m going to propose a new play,” said Marcus, one evening, as the
little party gathered around the table; “it is called _Conglomeration_.”

“Conglomeration! I hope the play is as funny as the name,” said Kate.

“We shall see,” observed Marcus, as he distributed some slips of paper
among the children. “Now I want each of you to write five words on
separate pieces of paper, and throw them all in a heap on the middle of
the table. You can select any words you choose.”

When all had written, Marcus mixed together the bits of paper, and then
directed each one to take five words from the heap, as they happened to
come, and to write one or more sentences containing those words in the
order in which they were drawn from the pile.

There was a good deal of merriment among the party, as they glanced at
the slips, and perceived what a droll “conglomeration” they had got to
weave together. Here are some specimens of them:—

              KATE’S.    ROLAND’S.  OSCAR’S.   OTIS’S.
              Poetry,    Spider,    Shoot,     Funny,
              Physic,    Book,      Gravy,     Toothache,
              Should,    Sober,     Girl,      Jewsharp,
              Ronald,    Cannot,    Onions,    Going,
              Broomstick Turkey.    Sublime.   Jericho.

No one thought of saying “I can’t,” however, and in a few minutes, after
some rubbing of foreheads and scratching of heads, the last of the
sentences was completed.

“Now each one may read his own sentence aloud, emphasizing the words
that were given. Otis, we will begin with you.”

Otis read:—

    “It would be _funny_ if the _toothache_ could be cured with a
    _jewsharp_, but I am not _going_ to _Jericho_ to find out about
    it.”

“No, I should not,” said Marcus; “now, Ronald, what have you written?”

Ronald then read:—

    “The _spider_ may not care anything about a _book_, but a
    _sober_ boy like me _cannot_ help loving roast _turkey_.”

“A _sober_ boy, I should think!” said Kate.

“Don’t interrupt us,” said Marcus; “now, what’s yours, Oscar?”

“I couldn’t make much out of my list,” remarked Oscar, and after a
moment’s hesitation, he read:—

    “If I could _shoot_ a rabbit, I would make _gravy_ of him; and
    then the _girl_ should serve him up with _onions_, in the most
    _sublime_ style.”

“Why, I bet I could do better than that,” exclaimed Ronald.

“Stop, stop, Ronald!” cried Marcus; “where are your manners?”

“Something came into my head, just then, and I spoke before I thought,”
replied the impulsive boy, somewhat abashed.

“Let him try my list—I don’t care if he does beat me,” said Oscar, good
naturedly.

“No,” replied Marcus, “I think he had better not—you have done well
enough yourself. Now, Kate, we will hear yours.”

Kate then read:—

    “I don’t care much about _poetry_, and I hate _physic_, but I
    _should_ like to hit _Ronald_ with a _broomstick_.”

“You’d better try it!” cried Ronald, jumping into an attitude of
self-defence, as the merry laugh rang over the house.

Sentences were also read by Marcus and Ellen Blake, who had now become
an inmate of the house. Another round was then proposed with a larger
list of words; and now that the character of the play was better
understood, they found it even more amusing than at first.

The “Hay-Mow Debating Society,” so named from the place in which it
usually held its meetings, was established at the commencement of the
vacation, and met once or twice a week until the new term commenced. All
the children belonged to it, and all were required to take part in the
discussions. Subjects were assigned beforehand, and disputants appointed
for each side, so that all were prepared to say something. The questions
discussed were not perhaps so important as those which sometimes agitate
senates and parliaments, but they were such as the young debaters could
grasp, and feel an interest in. Marcus gave out for the first discussion
the proposition, “Education is of more value to a man than wealth.” The
manner in which this grave theme was handled, induced him to throw away
his list of propositions for discussion, and to make a new set, of a
very different order. Some of these were as follows: “Which is
preferable, summer or winter?” “Which is pleasanter, a residence on a
hill, or in a valley?” “Which is most desirable, a half holiday,
Wednesday and Saturday afternoons, or a whole holiday, every Saturday?”
“Who enjoy themselves most, boys or girls?” Though these may look like
trivial questions, they served to wake up the ideas of the young people,
and sometimes the debates became quite exciting, occasionally taking a
very amusing turn.

One evening, as riddles, puzzles, etc., were in the ascendant, Ellen
read the following from a scrap of paper:—

               “There was a man of Adam’s race,
                Who had a certain dwelling place;
                He had a house well covered o’er,
                Where no man dwelt since nor before.
                It was not built by human art,
                Nor brick nor lime in any part,
                Nor wood, nor rock, nor nails, nor kiln,
                But curiously was wrought within.
                ’T was not in heaven, nor yet in hell,
                Nor on the earth where mortals dwell.
                Now if you know this man of fame,
                Tell where he lived and what’s his name.”

“Jonah in the whale’s belly!” promptly cried Ronald.

“Did you ever see this puzzle?” inquired Otis. “A man has a wolf, a goat
and a cabbage to carry across a river. It wont do to leave the wolf and
goat together, nor the goat and the cabbage, and he can carry only one
at a time, the boat is so small. Now what shall he do?”

After a moment’s thought, Kate gave the solution, as follows:—

“First he carried over the goat; then returned and got the cabbage; then
he took back the goat, and left it, and carried over the wolf; then last
of all he went and got the goat.”

“Let’s see who can find this one out,” said Ronald. “A sea captain on a
voyage had thirty passengers—fifteen Christians and fifteen Turks. A
great tempest arose, and he had to throw half of them overboard. They
agreed to let him place them in a circle, and throw every ninth man
overboard, till only fifteen were left. He did so, and when he got
through, every Christian was saved, and every Turk drowned. How did he
do it?”

“That is easy enough,” said Kate; and writing down the figures from one
to thirty, she counted off every ninth one, and found that the
Christians and Turks were arranged as follows:—


    CCCC, TTTTT, CC, T, CCC, T, C, TT, CC, TTT, C, TT, CC, T.

“Let me propose the next puzzle,” said Aunt Fanny. “What English word of
seven letters can be so transposed as to make over fifty different
words?”

No one could solve this question, and when the word “weather” was named,
as the answer, the children could hardly credit the fact that it was so
prolific, until they had each made out a list of words. Throwing out
quite a number that were obtained by using a single letter more than
once, the following long list remained, which perhaps does not exhaust
the subject:—

            We,     Where,  Ewe,    Tea,    Her,    Here,
            Wet,    Wreath, Ere,    Tear,   He,     Hare,
            War,    Wrath,  At,     Tree,   Ha,     Heat,
            Wart,   Water,  Ah,     Thaw    Hat,    Haw,
            Were,   Ear,    Ate,    Tare,   Hate,   Hew,
            Wear,   Eat,    Art,    Tar,    Hater,  Rat,
            What,   Eater,  Awe,    There,  Hart,   Rate,
            Whet,   Earth,  Are,    Three,  Heart,  Raw,
            Wheat.  Ether.  The.    Taw.    Hear.   Re-wet.


[Illustration]


“There, I have made forty angles with only five straight lines,” said
Kate, holding up a slip of paper; “can any body beat that?”

“Let me try,” said Marcus; and in a few minutes he pushed towards Kate
the accompanying figure, remarking, “There, I’ve made only six lines,
and if I’ve counted right, there are sixty angles.”

[Illustration]

While the others were amusing themselves with angles, Oscar made the
annexed sketch, and now passed it to the others, giving out with it the
following problem:

“A man had a piece of land exactly square, and having four trees
scattered over it, as you see in the picture. The house took up one
quarter of the land, and was occupied by four tenants. The owner
promised them the use of the land, rent free, if they could divide it
into four parts of the same size and shape, and each to have one tree.
The question is, how did they do it?”

[Illustration]

After some little puzzling of wits, the lot was divided as in the
annexed illustration, and the tenants were congratulated on the good
bargain they had made.

“Otis,” said Ronald, “I’ll bet you can’t tell what the half of nine is.”

“It’s four and a half—any fool might know that,” replied Otis.

“No it isn’t,” continued Ronald, “it’s either four or six, just as you
please, and I can prove it;” and writing IX, he folded the paper across
the middle and made his promise good.

“Speaking of arithmetical puzzles,” said Aunt Fanny, “I remember one
that I worked over for a long time, before I could see into it. It was
something like this: Two Arabs sat down to dinner, one having five
loaves, and the other three. A stranger came along and asked permission
to eat with them, which they granted. After the stranger had dined, he
laid down eight pieces of money and departed. The owner of the five
loaves took five pieces, and left three for the other, who thought he
had not received his share. So they went to a magistrate, and he ordered
that the owner of the five loaves should have _seven_ pieces of the
money, and the other only one. Was this just?”

“Why, no, it’s plain enough that it wasn’t,” said Otis. “Each man ought
to have as many pieces of money as he had loaves.”

“Yes, it was just,” continued Aunt Fanny; “otherwise you would pay the
man of three loaves for the bread he ate himself. To prove this, divide
each loaf into three equal parts, making in all twenty-four parts, and
take it for granted that each person ate an equal or one-third part of
the whole. You will find that the stranger had seven parts of the person
who contributed five loaves or fifteen parts, and only one of him who
contributed three loaves, or nine parts.”

“O yes, I see into it, now,” said Otis.

“That reminds me,” said Marcus, “of an anecdote that I read in a
newspaper the other day. I treasured it up, intending to relate it in
school some day, to illustrate the importance of understanding
arithmetic. It seems two carpenters took a job for one hundred and fifty
dollars. One of them, whom we will call A, worked one day more than the
other, B. The wages of a carpenter were two dollars per day. When the
work was finished, they divided the money, each taking seventy-five
dollars. Then A wished B to give him two dollars more for the extra day,
but B refused, as he saw that if he did so, A would have four dollars
more than he, which was evidently unjust. A insisted, and B insisted,
and finally they quarrelled. Some of the bystanders took the part of A,
and some of B; and yet the paper adds that all the parties were
Americans, and had attended the common schools six or eight years, where
I suppose they studied arithmetic, just as I suppose a good many other
children do, without troubling themselves to understand it.”

“How should you have settled that dispute, Otis?” inquired Mrs. Page.

“I should have told them to give A two dollars for his extra day, and
divide the rest equally,” replied Otis.

“Or if B had given A one dollar, it would have amounted to the same
thing,” said Mrs. Page.

“Your story,” said Aunt Fanny, “reminds me of an anecdote of a very rich
miser who lived in England, in the time of Cromwell. His name was
Audley. He had a wonderful knack of getting and keeping money, and was
not at all particular how he obtained it, if he did not make himself
liable to the law. He once heard of a poor tradesman who had been sued
by a merchant for two hundred pounds. The debtor could not meet the
demand, and was declared insolvent. Audley then went to the merchant,
and offered him forty pounds for the debt, which was gladly accepted. He
next went to the tradesman, and offered to release him from the debt for
fifty pounds, on condition that he would enter into a bond to pay for
the accommodation. The debtor was delighted with the offer, especially
as the terms of the bond were so easy. He was only required to pay to
Audley, sometime within twenty years of that time, one penny
progressively doubled, on the first day of twenty consecutive months;
and in case he failed to fulfil these easy terms, he was to forfeit five
hundred pounds. Thus relieved of his debt, he again commenced business,
and flourished more than ever. Two or three years after, Audley walked
into his shop one morning, and demanded his first payment. The tradesman
paid him his penny, and thanked him for the favor he had done him. On
the first day of the next month, Audley again called, and received his
two pence; a month later, he received four pence; and so on for several
months, doubling the sum each time. But at last the tradesman’s
suspicions were aroused, and he entered into a calculation of his
subsequent payments. I do not remember the sum which it amounted to—”

“Wait a minute—let me figure it up,” interrupted Kate, and she at once
set her pencil in motion. The calculation employed her and the others
several minutes. It was ascertained that the tradesman’s last payment
would have amounted to two thousand one hundred and eighty-six pounds,
and that the total sum of all the payments would have been four thousand
three hundred and sixty-nine pounds, omitting odd shillings and pence!

“I suppose the man paid the forfeit, when he found that out,” said
Ellen.

“Yes, he paid the miser five hundred pounds for his kindness,” replied
Aunt Fanny.

“I don’t see how any one can dislike arithmetic—I think it is a very
interesting study,” remarked Kate.

“How curious it is about the figure 9,” said Oscar; “you may multiply
any number you please by 9, and the figures in the product, added
together, will make 9, or a series of 9’s. As—

      9
      7
     —
     63—6 + 3 = 9

      9
      3
     —
     27—2 + 7 = 9

      9
     12
     ——
     108—1 + 8 = 9

and so on with any number, no matter how large.”

“You can do the same with any of the multiples of 9,” said Aunt Fanny,
“as 18, 27, 36, 45, 54, etc. If you multiply these by any number
whatever, you will have a series of 9’s in the product. Try it.”

Several experiments were made, with such results as the following:

      46
      18
     ——
     828—8 + 2 + 8 = 18—1 + 8 = 9

      117
       27
     ——
     3159—3 + 1 + 5 + 9 = 18—1 + 8 = 9

“There is another thing about the figure 9 very curious,” said Marcus.
“If you take any number composed of two figures, reverse it, and
subtract the smaller from the larger, the sum of the figures in the
answer will always be 9.”

This was found to be true, as in the following examples:

     96
     69
     —
     27—2 + 7 = 9

     54
     45
     —
      9

     84
     48
     —
     36—3 + 6 = 9

     98
     89
     —
      9

Marcus then explained that numbers composed of three or more figures,
transposed and subtracted in the same way, would always give a series of
9’s in the product. The children tried the experiment, and the following
are some of their examples:

     723
     237
     —-
     486—4 + 8 + 6 = 18

     8962
     2698
     ——
     6264—6 + 2 + 6 + 4 = 18

     32189
     28913
     ——-
      3276—3 + 2 + 7 + 6 = 18

     863577
     736578
     ———
     126999 = four 9’s

     9216358
     1982536
     ———-
     7233822 = three 9’s

“That _is_ curious; but why is it so—does anybody know?” inquired
Ronald.

“It will take a wiser head than mine to tell why it is so,” replied
Marcus.

“I found out something the other day about figures that I didn’t know
before,” remarked Ronald; “and that is, that if you wish to multiply a
number by five, you can get the same result by dividing by 2, and adding
a 0 if there is no remainder, or 5 if there is a remainder. Thus, 5
times 12 are 60. Divide 12 by 2, and add a 0, and you get 60. Or 5 times
83 are 415; divide 83 by 2, and add 5, because there is a remainder, and
you have the same number, 415.”

“That is quite a convenient process, sometimes,” said Miss Lee, “but
there is no mystery about it, like the properties of the figure 9. It is
in fact the same thing as multiplying by 10 and dividing by 2.”

“So it is,” replied Ronald. “Well, it’s queer that I didn’t find that
out myself—I thought that I had discovered something new.”

“Do you know how to make the magic square, Marcus?” inquired Otis.

“I used to know how to make _a_ magic square, for there are several
hundreds of them,” replied Marcus. “Let me see if I can do it, now—I
suppose I have forgotten all about it.”

“What is a magic square?” inquired Ellen.

“It is a table of figures that can be added together in a great many
different ways with the same result,” replied Miss Lee.

Marcus in a few minutes produced the simplest form of the magic square;
and turning to a book in the library, he found another one, both of
which are here given:


                             ┌───┬───┬───┐
                             │ 4 │ 9 │ 2 │
                             ├───┼───┼───┤
                             │ 3 │ 5 │ 7 │
                             ├───┼───┼───┤
                             │ 8 │ 1 │ 6 │
                             └───┴───┴───┘


                           ┌───┬───┬───┬───┐
                           │  1│ 16│ 11│  6│
                           ├───┼───┼───┼───┤
                           │ 13│  4│  7│ 10│
                           ├───┼───┼───┼───┤
                           │  8│  9│ 14│  3│
                           ├───┼───┼───┼───┤
                           │ 12│  5│  2│ 15│
                           └───┴───┴───┴───┘


The several columns in these tables may be added up in the usual way, or
crosswise, or diagonally (from one angle to its opposite) and the result
will always be the same—15 in the first, and 34 in the second square.

Such were some of the methods by which the children were amused, at Mrs.
Page’s, during the long evenings and stormy days of their vacation. They
also had singing, reading aloud, story telling, and newspaper
publishing, by way of change. Of this last I must tell you more.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XII.

                             THE NEWSPAPER.


AND what about the newspaper? Well, it was a famous thing, for a time,
and made a great stir in the family. The idea originated with Kate, who
thought it would be rare sport to edit and publish a newspaper among
themselves; and as the others readily fell in with her plan, the
enterprise was soon under way. Aunt Fanny, who had frequently written
for the press, consented to act as editor, and Marcus and the children
all agreed to contribute their portion towards sustaining the paper. The
preliminaries were soon settled. The paper was to be called “THE HOME
WREATH.” It was to be issued weekly, and composed of one or more sheets
of letter paper, according to the quantity of matter furnished. Its
contents were to consist of short selections, cut from other papers, and
original articles. The latter were to be written on one side of narrow
slips of paper, of a uniform size, so that, with the selections, they
could be readily pasted into their places, in columns. Of course, but
one copy of each paper could be prepared, which was to circulate as
common property. The editor was authorized to reject, correct or
condense whatever was sent for publication. Communications were to be
sent to her through the letter-box; and it was further agreed that those
who contributed an article or letter to the “Wreath” every week, should
be exempted from further duties as members of the “Letter-writing
Society,” if they did not choose to keep up their private
correspondence.

The appearance of the first number of the “Home Wreath” was quite an
event in the household. The editor maintained a dignified reserve in
regard to its contents, until the day of publication, when it was
quietly ushered before its little public, six or seven pairs of eyes
being intently fastened upon it, before it had been two minutes from
“the office.” As one and another, who had “a finger in the pie,”
recognized their bantlings in the crowded columns, they looked pleased
and surprised, while others, who searched in vain for their
contributions, seemed still more surprised, and not quite so well
pleased. But here are the “Notices to Correspondents,” which doubtless
explain it all. Ah, yes, the editor is already bothered with articles
too long for her little paper, or too carelessly written to appear in
its columns. Well, perhaps this will be a salutary warning to the
offenders; and meanwhile, they can avenge themselves by criticising the
articles which have been more successful than their own. But we hear no
captious criticism, and perceive no signs of ill nature. The “Wreath” is
read, laughed over, discussed and admired by all, and at once takes its
place as an “established fact.”

The second number of the new paper promptly appeared, the next week, and
was generally regarded as an improvement on the first. The third was
indeed a surprise number, and produced a great sensation in the family.
It was issued on Ronald’s birth-day, who went early to the letter-box,
thinking himself entitled to the remembrance of his correspondents, on
such an occasion. He found a lot of small packages in the box, addressed
to different persons, on one of which he found his own name. Tearing off
the envelope, there appeared before him the “Home Wreath,” neatly
printed from real type, on printing paper! He could scarcely credit his
eyes, at first, but the evidence of its genuineness was too plain to be
disputed, for there was one of his own articles in real print! The
discovery was quickly known all over the house, and each of the inmates
found a copy of the paper in the post office, bearing his or her
address. Marcus and the editor both feigned surprise, when questioned
about the affair; but after a while the facts leaked out. An old
playmate and intimate friend of Marcus was employed in the printing
office of the neighboring village. Marcus frequently visited him, and,
with a view of getting up a birth-day present for Ronald, arranged with
his friend to print the “Wreath” for that occasion. The plan was
successfully carried out, as we have seen.

A transcript of this little sheet is given on the next two leaves,
somewhat reduced in its dimensions and the size of its type, to suit our
pages, but containing all the matter of the original.


                            THE HOME WREATH.
               ══════════════════════════════════════════
              VOL. I.     HIGHBURG, DECEMBER 4.     NO. 3.
               ══════════════════════════════════════════
                            THE HOME WREATH:

                 A Weekly Journal for Home Improvement.

                        PAGE & CO., PUBLISHERS.

                             Terms—Gratis.

       ---------------------------------------------------------

                                                    For the Home Wreath,

                                 LINES,

                      INSCRIBED TO RONALD D. PAGE.

                     I’m twelve! I’m twelve to-day!
                       Hurrah, boys! let us shout!
                     Come, leave your work and play,
                     And kick old care away;
                       Ye gloomy thoughts, get out!
                       We’ll have no mopes about—
                     I’m twelve! I’m twelve to-day!

                     I’m twelve! I’m twelve to-day!
                       A dozen years have fled
                     Since first the morning ray,
                     All sober, cold and gray,
                       Stole in upon my head;
                       How fast old Time hath sped!
                     I’m twelve! I’m twelve to-day!

                     I’m twelve! I’m twelve to-day!
                       Then help me to be glad!
                     Come all, and let’s be gay—
                     There’s nothing more to pay
                       For being bright than sad;
                       Cheer up, then, lass and lad!
                     I’m twelve! I’m twelve to-day!

                  *       *       *       *       *

                        An Exercise for Scholars.

 IN England, young candidates for appointment in the civil service are
 subjected to rigid examinations, designed to test their abilities and
 acquirements. The following extract, which we have somewhat abridged,
 shows one of the methods adopted for securing this end. It is said to
 be a literal copy of a document which a young applicant for a
 government clerkship was required to correct while undergoing his
 examination. We wonder how many of our young readers could put it into
 proper shape without consulting the dictionary.—ED.

 “CHARACTER OF WASHINGTON.—At the braking out of the revolushonery war
 in Amerrica, Washinton joined the caus of indipendance. To detale his
 conduct in the yeares which followed would be butt to relaite the
 hystery of the American War. It may be said generaly that wethin a
 verry short peeriod after the declarashion of indipendance the affairs
 of Amerrica were in a condishun so desparate, that perhapps nothing but
 the piculear caractar of Washinton’s genious could have retreaved them.
 It required the consumate prudance, the calm whisdom, the inflexable
 firmness, the modarate and well-balenced temper of Washinton to imbrace
 such a plann of pollicy and to pursivere in it: to resist the
 tempations of entreprize to fix the confidance of his solders without
 the attraction of victery: to support the spirrit of the armey and the
 peopel ammidst those sloe and caushious planns of difensive warfare
 wich are more despereting than defeate itself: to restrain his owne
 hambition and the empettuosity of his troupes: to indure temparary
 hobscurety for the sallvation of his contry and for the attanement of
 solled and imortal glory: and to suffer even temparary reproach and
 oblaquy, supported by the haprobation of his own consience, and the
 applaus of that small number of wise men whose praise is an earnest of
 the hadmeration and grattitoode of possterity. Corage is enspired by
 succes, and it may be stimulated to dasperate exirtion even by
 callamity, but is generally pallseyed by inactivity. A sestem of
 caushous defence is the severest tryal of human fortitoode and by this
 teste the firmness of Washington was tryde.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

 HATE.—Hannah More said: “If I wanted to punish an enemy, it should be
 by fastening on him the trouble of constantly hating somebody.”


                            The Home Wreath.
                               ──────────
                          SATURDAY, DECEMBER 4.
                          ─────────────────────

                         Nothing Insignificant.

 OUR humble sheet is a very small affair; but if any stern critic is
 disposed to despise it on that account, let us remind him that there is
 nothing so small as to be wholly insignificant, when viewed in all its
 relations. We everywhere find little things linked with greater, and
 thousands of minute and hidden causes are constantly interlocking and
 working together, to bring about those events which impress us with
 their vastness and importance. A spark of fire may set in train a
 conflagration which will lay waste thousands of acres. Large and
 populous islands in the Pacific Ocean owe their origin to very small
 insects. The great globe itself is made up of little particles—the
 universe is but an aggregate of atoms. The astronomer finds it
 necessary to note the minutest fractions of time in observing the
 transit of a star whose age is perhaps measured by thousands of
 centuries, and whose revolutions extend through infinite space. Thus
 are moments linked with ages in the economy of nature, and thus are we
 reminded that nothing is so minute as to be insignificant.

                             --------------

                                I Can’t.

 This phrase is always in the mouth of some children when requested to
 do anything. We once knew a boy who was greatly addicted to its use. He
 wanted to learn to skate, but after one unsuccessful attempt, he gave
 it up, saying, “I can’t.” The next summer several of his playmates
 learned to swim, and he also wanted to learn; but after getting his
 mouth and ears full of water, one day, he cried, “I can’t,” and that
 was the end of his swimming experiments. If his class had a difficult
 lesson, he never learned it, and his excuse was always the same—“I
 can’t.” We once set him a copy in his writing-book, and told him that
 if he could not imitate it perfectly, he must write as well as he
 could. “I can’t,” was the ready reply. “What!” we exclaimed, “_can’t_
 you write as well as you can?” He looked ashamed, but made no reply.

 That boy is now a young man, but he is an ignorant, idle, and shiftless
 fellow, and, we fear, will never be of much use either to himself or to
 the world.

 Commend us to the boy or girl who never says “I can’t,” except when
 enticed to do wrong. “I can” does all things; “I can’t,” nothing.

                             --------------

                           To Correspondents.

 Several articles intended for this number are crowded out. We shall
 probably have to issue a double number next week, to accommodate our
 friends.

 We observe that some of our correspondents occasionally apply the
 pronoun _thou_, and the pronominal adjectives _thy_ and _thine_, to
 plural nouns. This is wrong. _You_ and _yours_ may be used either in
 the singular or plural number; but _thou_, _thy_ and _thine_ are always
 singular. You cannot say to a father and mother, as a poem which we
 lately saw in a newspaper, (_not_ the “Wreath,”) said,—

                      “_Thy_ darling is in heaven.”

                             --------------

                               News Items.

 ☞ The Winter Term of the Highburg Academy commences on Monday next, and
 will continue eleven weeks. Robert Upton, A. M., Preceptor; Mr. Marcus
 Page, Assistant Teacher; and Miss Martha D. Tillotson, Teacher of
 Drawing and Music.

                  *       *       *       *       *

 ☞ It is reported that traces of bears have been recently seen near
 Turkey Hill, in the eastern part of Highburg. Several bears have been
 killed this winter in the upper part of the county, and we should not
 be surprised if some of the “varmints” made us a visit ere long.

                  *       *       *       *       *

 ☞ A lynx was shot last week in Burlington. The paper from which we
 glean this item says: “The animal is a rare one in Vermont. It is of a
 grayish color, with ears ending in tufts of black hair, standing [not
 the ‘ears,’ nor the ‘hair,’ we presume, but the lynx] a little more
 than a foot high, and measuring three feet in length. It subsists on
 hares, rabbits, and such small animals, occasionally attacking a sheep,
 or even a deer, by dropping on them [it] from a branch of a tree.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

 ☞ Two boys who had been skating in New York, a week or two since, were
 attacked with violent cramps and inflammation, and one of them died
 from the effects. It is conjectured that they laid down upon the ice,
 while heated from their exercise. This should be a warning to skaters.

                  *       *       *       *       *

 ☞ The snow which fell Wednesday, though light, is sufficient to make
 pretty good sleighing, and every body seems to be improving it. The
 proprietors, contributors and subscribers of the “Wreath” took their
 first sleigh-ride, this season, on Thursday. They were all comfortably
 stowed away in a sleigh and a pung!

                          ═════════════════════
                             Correspondence.
                          ─────────────────────

                                                         For the Wreath.

                            Small Beginnings.

 A gentleman was once examining a very large and fine library in Boston,
 when the lady who had introduced him, asked him if he would like to see
 the “nucleus” of the collection. (If you do not know what “nucleus”
 means, you will have to turn to the dictionary, as I can think of no
 simpler word to substitute for it.) “Yes, I should like to see it,”
 replied the visitor. She then exhibited to him a Latin dictionary,
 which she said was purchased by the owner when a boy, with money
 obtained by the sale of blueberries. The owner was a farmer’s boy, and
 that is the way he began his fine library. He is now a learned man, and
 is well known in this country and in Europe.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                         For the Wreath.

                             Vanity—A Fable.

 Two birds, whose plumage was very brilliant, and whose song was
 beautiful, were sitting on a tree, singing, when they discovered a man
 looking at them very intently. “There is an admirer—see how we have
 entranced him!” cried one of the birds, and she put on her proudest
 air, and warbled her sweetest song. “I do not like to be gazed at so
 earnestly by a stranger,” modestly replied the other bird; “come, let
 us go and hide ourselves from the intruder.” The modest bird flew into
 a thicket and concealed herself; but the other, flying to the top-most
 bough, began to show off all her airs, when suddenly the sharp crack of
 a gun was heard, and the silly bird fell dead.

 MORAL.—“Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a
 fall.”

                                                                   KETA.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                         For the Wreath.

 MISS EDITOR:—I feel slighted. You are all writing for the “Wreath,” but
 not a soul of you has asked me to contribute to your interesting paper.
 Why is this? Have I not heard some of you say that I know as much as
 many human bipeds of the same age? Don’t I understand almost everything
 that you say to me? And if I only _could_ talk, wouldn’t I rattle away
 as fast as any of you? I bet I would. If I don’t talk, it isn’t because
 I’ve got no ideas, depend on that. But you see I can write, although
 perhaps you did not know it. But fearing I am an intruder, I will stop.

                                                                  ROVER.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                         For the Wreath.

                                The Snow.

 Hurrah! The snow has come!—Now wont we have fine times! I like to see
 it come thick and fast, and bury everything up. How curious it is, to
 see the woods, and fences, and stones, and roofs, and fields, and
 hills, covered over with the pure white snow! What fun it is to roll
 and tumble in it! I like to have the roads all blocked up, so that we
 can’t get anywhere, not even to school. Then what fun it is to break
 out the ways! We have a large sled, with a plough lashed to the off
 side. Then we hitch on six or eight yoke of oxen, and are ready for a
 start. The boys load up the sled, and a lot of men go ahead to shovel
 through the deep drifts, and so we go all over town till the roads are
 broken out.

                                                                    RON.

                  *       *       *       *       *

                                                         For the Wreath.

                            A Cunning Fellow.

 The summer that I lived in Brookdale, I was one day in the woods, with
 my cousin Jerry, and another boy, named Clinton, when we found a fox’s
 hole. We began to dig her out; but when we got to the end of the hole,
 we found nothing. Clinton said he had known a fox to bank herself up in
 a separate cell, when her hole was invaded; and we determined to see if
 our fox had not served us so. We dug, and soon found eight little ones,
 all stowed away in a cell by themselves. We then tried to find the old
 one, but could not. So we took the little ones and started off; but on
 looking back we saw the old fox dart out of the hole and disappear. We
 went back to examine the hole again, and found that she had a separate
 cell for herself, which escaped our search. So she saved her own life,
 but she lost her little ones.

                                                                  OSCAR.

                          ═════════════════════
                               Gleanings.
                          ─────────────────────

 Digest what you read. It is not what you eat but what you digest that
 gives nourishment to the body; so with the mind. Young people sometimes
 run through a book, and are not able to tell afterwards what they have
 been reading.

 “John,” said the schoolmaster, “you will soon be a man, and will have
 to do business. What do you suppose you will do when you have to write
 letters, unless you learn to spell, better?” “O, sir, I shall put easy
 words in them.”

 “Dick, I say, why don’t you turn the buffalo robe t’other side
 out?—hair is the warmest.”

 “Bah, Tom, you get out. Do you suppose the animal himself didn’t know
 how to wear his hide?”


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             CHAPTER XIII.

                              MASTER PAGE.


[Illustration]

 SO impatient was Ronald to enter upon his academic career, that he had
 his school books and his slate all ready for a start, Saturday
 afternoon. On going up to his chamber, later in the day, he was
 pleasantly surprised to find a nice new satchel upon his table, which
 his mother had made for him, as a birth-day present. He packed his
 books into it, and swung it over his shoulder, and walked back and
 forth, to see how it would seem. While he was thus indulging in
 pleasant anticipations, his room-mate, Otis, was undergoing a very
 different experience. Entering the chamber, without noticing Ronald, he
 threw himself upon the bed, and burst into tears. Ronald did not need
 to inquire what ailed him. His parents had that afternoon made their
 promised visit to Kate and Otis, and had just started for home, and the
 poor boy was consequently suffering from that most distressing malady
 of the mind—home-sickness. Ronald’s efforts to enliven him proved
 unavailing, and he was reluctantly compelled to leave him to his grief,
 which did not wholly subside until sleep came to his relief.

 On Monday morning, more than half an hour before the first stroke of
 the academy bell was heard, Ronald was busily engaged in hurrying up
 his academical associates, whose moderation in getting themselves ready
 for the day’s business seemed to him almost too bad to be patiently
 endured. However, contrary to his predictions, all arrived at the
 academy in good season, though they went in straggling parties—for it
 was the preference of all to walk, rather than ride, when the weather
 and the roads permitted. Of course, they carried their dinners.

 At five minutes before nine o’clock the bell sounded, and the scholars
 and teachers assembled in the school-room. The forenoon was spent in
 taking the names of the pupils, assigning seats, forming classes,
 giving out lessons, and in general remarks to the students on the
 purpose for which they had assembled, and the duties which they were
 expected to perform. Most of the preliminary matters were settled, in
 the forenoon, and the regular studies commenced with the afternoon
 session.

 The incidents of the day afforded plenty of topics for conversation to
 Marcus and the students from his family, as they proceeded home, at
 night. General satisfaction was expressed that one of the monitors’
 desks, overlooking a division of the smaller boys, had been assigned to
 Oscar. This arrangement seemed peculiarly gratifying to Ronald and
 Otis, who thus came under his oversight, and who smiled incredulously,
 when he declared that he should keep a particularly sharp eye upon
 them. Oscar expressed himself as much pleased with the preceptor, Mr.
 Upton. Kate, who had been promoted to the highest class, and was in
 excellent spirits, said she always admired Mr. Upton, and thought she
 should rather like his new assistant, Mr. Page. Otis and Ronald, on the
 other hand, were a little disappointed because Marcus had disregarded
 their joint request, that they might sit together, and had placed them
 so far apart that any intercourse during school hours, except by means
 of winks, signs and paper “spit balls,” would be out of the question.
 The reason Marcus gave for this refusal,—the fear that they would have
 too good a time together,—was not very consoling to the boys. Instead
 of Otis, Ronald had for his nearest comrade the boy who blotted his
 writing-book at the district school, Lewis Daniels. Both Marcus and
 Ronald, however, treated Lewis with kindness, and tried to make him
 forget the injury he had inflicted upon the latter.

 The ardor with which Ronald set out for school in the morning was a
 little dampened by one or two other incidents that occurred during the
 day. At noon, as he approached a group of large boys, he heard one of
 them say—

 “I don’t care for Marcus Page—he’s nothing but a boy, himself. He was a
 scholar, here, for a year or more after I joined the academy.”

 On turning round, and seeing Ronald near, the large boy added—

 “Here, you youngster, you needn’t go and tell Page everything you hear,
 because you happen to live with him; because if you do, you’ll be sorry
 for it.”

 Ronald had no heart to report this conversation to Marcus, though he
 cared nothing for the threat. His ears tingled, however, to hear Marcus
 spoken of in this way, and from that moment he felt a strong dislike
 towards the boy in question, who, to do him justice, was not so bad as
 he seemed, but only had an unhappy habit of saying more than he felt,
 and threatening more than he was willing to perform.

 Another large boy,—a mischievous but not ill-meaning fellow,—annoyed
 Ronald a good deal by applying to him the nickname _Frenchy_, and
 telling him he had got to wear it as his “academical name.” Ronald
 reported this to Marcus; but the latter advised him to take no notice
 of the affair, telling him that the inventor of the nickname would
 probably soon forget all about it, if he saw that it did not trouble
 Ronald.

 “Who would have thought of seeing Jessie Hapley in the academy!”
 exclaimed Kate, as they were walking home. “I declare, I never was more
 surprised in my life—they are so poor, you know.”

 “But Jessie is a very fine girl, if she is poor,” said Marcus.

 “O, yes, I like her very much,” promptly responded Kate; “and I’m glad
 she is going to school with us; but I didn’t suppose her father could
 afford to send her.”

 “She earned the money herself, to pay for her tuition,” added Marcus.
 “She sees she has got to support herself, if not the rest of the
 family, and she is anxious to qualify herself for teaching. She thinks
 she is better adapted to that business than to any other, and I think
 so, too. She is an excellent scholar, and you will have to look out for
 your laurels, Kate, now that she is in school.”

 “Well, she is older than I am,” said Kate, quite unconcerned.

 “Only a few months,” added Marcus; “besides, her school privileges have
 been very limited, compared with yours.”

 “No matter, I don’t think I shall be jealous of her,” replied Kate. “I
 always did like Jessie, and if any girl is going to excel me, I’d
 rather it should be her than any one else. But Abby Leonard declares
 that she wont associate with her. She says she hates to see a poor girl
 all the time ‘trying to be somebody.’”

 “I am afraid Abby is not so wise as she might be, if she _has_ enjoyed
 the advantages of city society,” observed Marcus.

 “Do you know what she does to make herself look pale and slender?”
 inquired Kate. “She eats chalk, and slate pencils, and drinks lots of
 vinegar. She advised me to try it, because I’m so plump. She thinks it
 doesn’t look interesting and genteel, to be fat.”

 “I hope you wont follow her advice, unless you wish to ruin your
 health,” replied Marcus. “I shall have to speak to her about this
 subject—she has fallen into a very dangerous practice, as well as a
 foolish theory. In fact, if she consumes those articles to any extent,
 she is committing suicide, whether she knows it or not.”

 The current of events continued to flow on smoothly day after day, at
 the academy, until one morning, when the principal failed to appear.
 Marcus opened the session, at the usual hour, and soon after received a
 note from Mr. Upton, stating that he was ill, and unable to be present.
 Marcus conducted the school through the day, with very good success,
 and before returning home, called upon his associate, whom he found
 prostrated with an illness which would probably detain him from his
 labors for several weeks.

 “I do not see but that you will have to take my place, for a week or
 two, Marcus,” said Mr. Upton. “We have got well under way, and
 everything is going on smoothly, so that I think you and Miss Tillotson
 can manage matters very well, for a little while.”

 Marcus shook his head, and looked somewhat alarmed, at this
 proposition. Nor was he slow in making known his objections. He had had
 little experience in teaching, even the simpler branches, and as to the
 higher studies, he was appalled by what he considered his lack of
 qualifications. Then how could he, an inexperienced youth, maintain the
 discipline of such a school, composed in part of pupils as old as
 himself, some of whom had been his school-mates a year previous? Mr.
 Upton, however, did not give much heed to these objections. He did not
 doubt Marcus’s qualifications to teach any of the branches, and as to
 the discipline, if he experienced any trouble, the trustees would give
 him all necessary aid. As it would be impracticable to make any other
 arrangement, at least for a week or two, Marcus at length consented to
 assume this new responsibility.

 The next morning, Marcus informed the scholars of the new duties that
 had devolved upon him, and expressed his determination to do his best
 to make good their preceptor’s place, at the same time soliciting their
 aid and co-operation in the work. With now and then a trifling
 exception, the school was as orderly and quiet as usual, and Marcus was
 soon satisfied that the public sentiment of his charge was on his side,
 and would sustain him in his position. This was especially true of the
 older scholars, of whom he had most stood in doubt. Appreciating the
 value of their privileges, even the least sedate of them had no
 inclination to come in collision with their young teacher, for whom,
 indeed, they all felt some degree of esteem, as a personal friend.
 Neither did the younger pupils manifest any disposition to question his
 authority. Two days’ experience satisfied Marcus that the only pupils
 from whom he had reason to anticipate trouble were three or four boys,
 some thirteen or fourteen years old; and he had no doubt that he should
 be able to bring these turbulent spirits into subjection, in a few
 days.

 These troublesome boys happened to be seated together, near the back
 part of the room, and at times they created some little disturbance in
 that quarter. Before dismissing school at night, Marcus pleasantly
 informed them, separately, that he proposed to re-seat some of the
 boys, and then proceeded to arrange such an exchange of desks as
 brought them nearer to his platform, and at the same time scattered
 them apart. One or two of the worst of them, by this change, were
 brought under the monitorial eye of Oscar.

 Marcus now made it a special object to secure the confidence and
 good-will of the more unruly part of his charge. One noon, he saw
 several of his most troublesome boys at work upon a snow figure, in the
 grove back of the academy. He approached them, and, commending their
 skilful workmanship, soon drew them into a pleasant conversation. As he
 watched the growing statue, he observed that the credit belonged mainly
 to one of the lads, named Charles Wilder, who directed the labor of the
 others. Marcus had noticed that this boy exercised a good deal of
 influence over his comrades; but in the school-room he was rather
 inattentive to his lessons, and inclined to mischief.

 “Charlie’s the boy for this kind of work,” said one of the lads,
 addressing Marcus.

 “Yes, I see he understands it,” replied Marcus. “You have quite an
 artist’s eye, Charlie. Where did you learn so much about modelling?”

 “O, I don’t know much about it—all I do know came natural to me,”
 replied the boy.

 “I remember seeing an account of a young man in this State,” said
 Marcus, “who made a statue of snow and ice that was so beautiful, that
 a rich gentleman ordered a copy of it in marble. Perhaps you will be as
 fortunate as he, one of these days.”

 “I mean to be a sculptor, some time or other,” replied Charles, his
 face lighting up with an expressive smile.

 “I suppose it’s hard work to make a statue, isn’t it?” inquired one of
 the boys.

 “No, I don’t know as it is exactly what you would call hard work, but
 it requires a good deal of skill, and taste, and genius, to make a fine
 statue,” replied Marcus.

 “O, I suppose they have plenty of tools, and pound it out,” observed
 another boy.

 “Pound out your grandma’am with tools, just as much!” exclaimed
 Charles, with a glance of mingled pity and indignation at the boy who
 held this degraded view of the beautiful art to which his soul was thus
 early wedded.

 “You must be somewhat proficient in drawing, Charlie, to design such a
 statue as this,” resumed Marcus.

 “I’m very fond of drawing, but I don’t know much about it,” replied
 Charles.

 “You are not taking lessons in drawing, I believe?” inquired Marcus.

 “No, sir; I wanted to, but father said it was of no use,” replied
 Charles.

 “I think it _would_ be of use,” said Marcus; “that is, if you have as
 much taste for it as I think you have. I wish you would let me see one
 of your drawings,—perhaps I could persuade your father to let you take
 lessons, if I think it worth while.”

 “I’ve got one in my desk—I’ll run and get it,” said Charles; and he
 darted off, soon returning with a very neatly executed drawing of a dog
 hunting a stag, which he had copied with much skill from an engraving.

 “That is very creditable to you—very much so,” said Marcus, as he
 examined the picture. “You certainly have a taste for drawing, and your
 father must let you take lessons of Miss Tillotson. I will speak to him
 about it, this week.”

 The young artist looked pleased and grateful, and Marcus left him, not
 only feeling a new interest in the boy, but with a firm persuasion that
 he should have no further trouble with him.

[Illustration]

 The above is a representation of Charles’s drawing. Marcus took the
 trouble to call upon Mr. Wilder, that afternoon, and after a little
 persuasion obtained permission for Charles to take drawing lessons.

 A day or two after this, Marcus found on his desk, one morning, an
 anonymous note, which read as follows:—

     “TO MASTER PAGE:—I think it is too bad that some of the
     scholars should be allowed to have keys to their arithmetics,
     when it is against the rules. Fair play is a jewel. This is
     from

                                                     ONE WHO KNOWS.”

 Marcus was for a time in doubt what to do in relation to this
 complaint. The anonymous character of the note deprived it of all claim
 upon his attention; and its apparently implied censure upon him for
 something of which he had no knowledge, rendered it still more
 objectionable. After reflection, however, he determined to investigate
 the matter at once, leaving to a future occasion some remarks to the
 school on the impropriety and meanness of writing anonymous letters of
 complaint. He accordingly remarked to the school:—

 “I have been informed that some of the scholars have keys to their
 arithmetics. I wish all such would rise.”

 Much to his surprise, Oscar promptly arose, and said:—

 “I have a key, but I have made no improper use of it. I do all my sums
 before I look at the answers.”

 “Did you not know that it is contrary to the rules for any scholar to
 have a key?” said Marcus.

 “Yes, sir,” replied Oscar.

 “That is sufficient,” said Marcus. “You have violated one of our rules,
 whatever use you may have made of the key. If you have it here, you may
 deliver it up.”

 Oscar obeyed the order, his appearance indicating that he felt the mild
 rebuke rather keenly. It is due to him to say, that with this
 exception, his conduct in school had thus far been quite exemplary, and
 his progress in his studies commendable.

 After Ronald had become somewhat familiar with the school, he found it
 rather difficult to wholly repress the promptings to fun within him.
 During the first week of the principal’s absence, Marcus had occasion
 to reprove him several times, privately, for offences of this kind, and
 on one occasion, detained him after school, as a punishment. One
 afternoon, as Marcus was hearing a class recite, he was startled by one
 of his most quiet boys crying out:—

 “You quit that!”

 “What is the matter, Edmund?” inquired Marcus.

 The boy, coloring deeply replied:—

 “Ronald has been snapping nut-shells at me for half an hour, and he
 just hit me in the eye with one. I was very busy ciphering, and I spoke
 before I thought. I forgot I was in school.”

 Ronald was called out, a handful of nuts was transferred from his
 pocket to the teacher’s desk, and he was then directed to stand upon
 the platform facing the school, until he had committed to memory a page
 from a geography used by another class. In all this Marcus was as calm
 and mild as usual; but nevertheless, Ronald did not feel very
 pleasantly, as he took his position and commenced his task, though the
 punishment was not what he feared it would be, when called out. His
 mortification was not a little increased, when, after reciting the
 task, Marcus assigned him a new seat, directly under his own eye.
 Ronald avoided all company, on his way home, that afternoon, and seemed
 especially anxious to keep out of the reach of Marcus, through the rest
 of the day. Marcus, however, had something to say to Ronald, and after
 tea he found an opportunity to say it.

 “Ronald,” he said, “I have been thinking that I had better increase
 your lessons a little. I am afraid you are getting along too easily at
 school.”

 “Why, I think our lessons are pretty hard,” replied Ronald, somewhat
 surprised.

 “They are hard enough for most of your class, but you learn so readily
 that I shall have to give you some extra tasks,” added Marcus.

 “I don’t think that is fair,” replied Ronald. “If I get all the lessons
 that the others do, I should think that is enough.”

 “If your lessons are so easy that you learn them without much effort,”
 continued Marcus, “you are missing the real end of going to school. It
 is not the chief aim of education to give a child a smattering of
 knowledge, but the object should be to discipline his mind, and that
 cannot be done without real tasks—lessons that will make him study
 hard, and think closely. He needs something to rouse him to exertion,
 and then he will begin to find out what his powers are. I think I shall
 let you study book-keeping and algebra, with the third class, in
 addition to your other lessons.”

 “Well, if you think best, I will try it,” said Ronald.

 “I have another reason for this,” added Marcus. “You have too many idle
 moments, now. Your lessons are not hard enough to keep you out of
 mischief. I shall have to increase them until you have no time for
 idleness or mischief during study hours.”

 Marcus imposed the additional studies upon Ronald, the next day. The
 salutary effects of this, and of the incidents of the previous
 afternoon, were soon apparent. He was careful, however, not to overtask
 the boy’s powers, which would have been a greater evil than the
 opposite error.

 With Otis, Marcus found a different course of management necessary. He
 was more quiet and orderly in school than Ronald, but less perfect in
 his lessons. Indeed, he was not remarkably fond of study, and needed a
 little spurring, now and then, to prevent his falling below the average
 of his class. One afternoon, as he was walking home with Marcus, he
 said:—

 “I can’t get that sixth sum right, any way. I’ve tried it half a dozen
 times, and I get it exactly the same every time. The answer in the book
 must be wrong, for I know I did it right. I did the other sums in just
 the same way, and they came right.”

 “You are wrong,” replied Marcus, “for I happen to know that the answer
 in the book is right. Georgianna Ellis came to me this afternoon with
 the same story. She thought the answer in the book was a mistake. But I
 did the sum, and found it right.”

 “How did you do it?” inquired Otis.

 “That is for you to find out yourself, if you can,” replied Marcus,
 with a significant accent upon the last clause of the sentence.

 “Didn’t you show Georgianna how to do it?” inquired Otis.

 “No,” replied Marcus; “I told her to read over the question carefully,
 and then to keep trying upon it until she got the right solution.”

 “Did she get it?” inquired Otis.

 “I do not know,” replied Marcus; “but if she has not found out her
 error, I have no doubt she will.”

 “Then I suppose you think I can do the sum, if I keep trying,” said
 Otis.

 “I have some doubts about that,” replied Marcus. “I suppose I ought to
 give you the same direction that I gave Georgianna; but I have little
 faith that you would be successful, after all.”

 “Why couldn’t I find out the answer, if she can?” inquired Otis.

 “There is a great difference in scholars,” replied Marcus. “Some are
 careful, and examine everything very closely, when they meet a
 difficulty, while others blunder about without much thought. Some have
 great perseverance, and others are quickly discouraged. And then some
 do not seem to have much sense, or if they have, they don’t exercise
 it.”

 Otis did not push his inquiries any further, and the subject was
 dropped. The stimulus of shame, judiciously applied, is sometimes
 effective when other means fail, and so it proved in this case. Otis
 was not discouraged by what Marcus said, but was incited by it to a new
 and more earnest effort. He solved the problem, unaided, and so derived
 more real benefit from this one puzzling question than from all the
 others in the day’s lesson, which he performed without difficulty.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XIV.

                        THE TROUBLESOME SCHOLAR.


 THERE was one boy in the academy who still caused Marcus no little
 anxiety. His name was Harrison Clark, and he was about fourteen years
 old, and large for his age. This was his first term at the academy. He
 was from an adjoining town, and but little was known of him, except
 what he himself chose to divulge. The achievement of his short life
 upon which he seemed to pride himself most, was a fight he had with his
 former teacher, a month or two before this, in which, according to his
 representation, he came off victor; and he had been heard to threaten a
 similar infliction upon Marcus, should that personage attempt to
 chastise him. One or two of the elder pupils were anxious that the
 insolence of this pert young gentleman should be checked by a sound
 thrashing, and they even intimated to the teacher that aid would not be
 wanting, in case the boy should offer serious resistance. But Marcus
 thought there was a more excellent way to subdue him, and determined to
 try it, before resorting to harsh measures.

 Marcus happened one day to fall in with a townsman of Harrison, from
 whom he gathered all the information he could in regard to the career
 and character of the boy. It appeared that he had been governed with
 severity, both at home and at school, so far as he had been governed at
 all. He had steadily grown worse, however, under this discipline, and
 his parents, finding they could do nothing with him, had sent him away
 to school, as the easiest way to rid themselves of a constant trouble.
 They were finally led to this course, by his altercation with his
 teacher. Several boys, it seemed, got into a wild frolic in the
 school-room, one day, before the opening of the session, in the course
 of which Harrison threw an inkstand at another lad, by which his face
 and clothes were stained, and the walls, floor, and seats soiled. The
 teacher, after investigating the matter, ordered Harrison to hold out
 his hand for punishment, which he refused to do, in an insolent manner.
 The teacher then attempted to seize his hand, but failing in this, he
 tripped the boy upon the floor, and a regular scuffle ensued. Another
 boy, still larger than Harrison, now rushed to the assistance of the
 latter, and before the disgraceful affray ended, they inflicted two or
 three serious blows upon the teacher, and then fled. They were both
 arrested for assault, and after a trial before a justice, were fined,
 Harrison ten dollars and the other boy five, besides the cost of the
 trial, which was divided between them. While it must be confessed that
 their punishment was just, I think few will deny that the teacher also
 was to be blamed for the part he acted in the affray.

 “Now can’t you tell me something good about Harrison?” inquired Marcus,
 after listening to the foregoing recital. “I believe there is always
 some good trait in every person, however bad.”

 “Well,” replied the other, “I’m thinking it would be rather hard to
 find anything very good about that chap. I don’t think he’s very
 hardened yet, but there’s precious little goodness about him, I can
 tell you. He thinks a good deal of his mother, and that’s the best
 thing I ever saw about him. And he ought to like her, for she’s a right
 down good woman—only she’s one of your easy, gentle sort, that oughtn’t
 to have anything to do with such a young scapegrace as he is.”

 Although Harrison had made himself sufficiently troublesome in the
 school-room, he had thus far avoided all flagrant offences. He
 manifested his disposition by an air of quiet insolence and defiance,
 and by petty acts of annoyance, too trivial for serious notice, even
 could they be proved against him, which was seldom the case. It was
 evident, however, that he was becoming emboldened by the absence of
 restraints and punishments with which he had been familiar in school,
 and Marcus looked forward with some solicitude to the certainty of an
 open collision with him, which day by day seemed more imminent.
 Meanwhile, the attempts of Marcus to win him over by kindness were not
 very well rewarded. If he spoke kindly to the boy on the play-ground or
 at his desk, he got no pleasant word or grateful look, in return. If he
 tried to draw him into conversation, the responses came grudgingly in
 monosyllables. On Saturday, he invited Harrison to come over to pass
 the afternoon with him and the children; but the boy did not come;
 worse yet, he did not say whether he would or not; and still worse, he
 expressed no thanks for the invitation.

 One cold morning, soon after the school opened, Marcus was somewhat
 annoyed by the coughing of the scholars—not a very unusual occurrence
 at that season. Having reduced the school to perfect silence, so that
 the falling of a pin might have been heard, he proceeded to say:—

 “I notice that many of the scholars have rather troublesome coughs. I
 have a cold myself, and I suppose I could cough as hard as any of you,
 if I chose to. But I am not going to do it. There are two objections to
 coughing. One is, it is injurious. The effort required in coughing is
 apt to tear the delicate fibres of the lungs. Sometimes people burst
 blood-vessels, while coughing, and die in consequence. The other
 objection is, it is unpleasant to those around us, especially in a
 school-room, church, or other public assembly. Sometimes, I admit, it
 is necessary to cough; but I think most of our coughing is unnecessary.
 By a little attention, and a little effort of the will, we can prevent
 it. Now I propose that those who have colds try the experiment with me,
 and we will see who will hold out longest without coughing.”

 Marcus had no sooner closed, than Harrison fell into a violent fit of
 coughing, which it was evident to all was feigned. Some of the younger
 scholars smiled at this ill-mannered freak, but others looked daggers
 at its perpetrator. Marcus uttered no rebuke, but the eyes of the rogue
 fell before his steady, quiet, searching look.

 A day or two after this, there was great excitement in the village,
 occasioned by the discovery that several sheep had been killed by
 bears, the tracks of which were found in the neighborhood of “Turkey
 Hill.” The presence of these animals in the town had been suspected for
 several weeks, but this was their first attack upon the sheep-folds of
 the farmers. Arrangements were at once made for a grand bear hunt, the
 next afternoon, and all the male population, above fifteen years of
 age, were invited to take part in it.

 Marcus found, the next morning, that most of his boys had come to
 school prepared to join in the hunt, either as participants or
 spectators. All who could, had procured guns, and as the lads and young
 men lounged around the academy, in groups, examining and comparing
 their arms, a stranger might have suspected the existence of a “school
 rebellion” of a really startling description. But when the bell struck,
 the guns were peaceably deposited in the ante-room, and the school-room
 assumed its usual quiet aspect. At recess several of the boys were
 dismissed, having brought notes from home, requesting Marcus to excuse
 them at that hour. Two or three others petitioned for a similar favor,
 but, having no authority from their parents for making the request,
 Marcus felt obliged to deny them. He did this the more easily, because
 he thought the request a needless one. The hunting party was not to
 rendezvous until half past twelve o’clock—half an hour after the
 session closed for the day, for it was Saturday. Nevertheless, Harrison
 Clark, who was one of the disappointed applicants, appeared to think
 differently; for when the boys were called in from recess, he was
 missing. On looking from a window, Marcus saw him standing, gun in
 hand, near the post office, where a crowd of men appeared to be
 discussing the arrangements of the day. One of the large scholars was
 despatched to bring the runaway back; but Harrison saw the young man
 approaching, and mistrusting his errand, took to his heels, and made
 good his escape.

 At twelve o’clock the session closed, the contents of sundry little
 baskets and tin pails were hurriedly disposed of for the benefit of the
 inner man, and most of the boys, accompanied by their teacher, then
 proceeded to the place of rendezvous. After waiting awhile for tardy
 stragglers, the hunting party was found to muster over a hundred men
 and boys, all armed. An experienced hunter was chosen captain, a few
 directions were given to the men, and the line of march was then taken
 up for Turkey Hill, some two miles distant.

 On reaching the hunting ground, the guns were loaded, and the party
 then proceeded to form a ring around the hill, which was a low
 eminence, densely wooded, and abounding with ledges. Two files of men
 started in opposite directions, and encircled the hill until they met,
 scattering themselves apart as they proceeded. Then, to test the
 connection of the ring in all its parts, the captain cried to his left
 hand man, “_Are you there?_” and he taking up the call, according to a
 previously arranged plan, shouted it to the man on his left, and thus
 it passed around, until it came back in a few moments to the leader. He
 then gave the order, “_Forward!_” in a similar manner; and as it ran
 round the line, the party began its slow march up the hill. They
 continued to ascend, gradually closing up the circle, until it embraced
 only about an acre of woods. The circle was now quite impervious to any
 animal, the hunters being within a few yards of each other. Only a
 small portion of the ring, however, was visible at any one point, owing
 to the trees and brush, and the inequality of the surface. Every gun
 was now cocked, and every eye was straining itself, to detect some sign
 of the presence of Bruin. Suddenly, the sharp crack of a gun was heard,
 followed by another, and another; and almost immediately, a large bear
 bounded out, towards the part of the circle where Marcus and Oscar were
 stationed. But ere the poor beast could reach the line, a score of
 bullets were buried in his body, and he fell dead. Loud and long was
 the shout of triumph that went up from every side; and still louder did
 it grow, when it was found that this was not the only trophy, but that
 another though much smaller bear had been shot on the opposite side of
 the ring, when the reports of firearms were first heard.

 The two carcasses were placed on sleds, and dragged to the village by
 the boys. The largest bear was found to weigh about four hundred and
 fifty pounds, but the weight of the other was a little short of two
 hundred pounds. Before the people separated for their homes, the two
 carcasses were put up at auction, and sold for about fifteen dollars.
 It was voted to give the money to the owner of the sheep killed by the
 bears—an aged man, in needy circumstances, who looked the gratitude he
 could not speak, when the generous proposal was ratified by a hearty
 “Aye!”

 On Monday morning, when Marcus read to the school the names of
 absentees at the previous session, and called for excuses, he came to
 the following entry: “Harrison Clark—left at recess.” He paused a
 moment, and as no excuse was offered, added—

 “Harrison, when school is dismissed in the afternoon, you may come to
 my desk.”

 “This _after_noon or _fore_noon?” inquired Harrison, not at all
 abashed.

 “I said this _after_noon,” replied Marcus, who postponed the matter
 until that hour, because of the limited intermission from studies at
 noon.

 As Marcus anticipated, Harrison was going off without paying any regard
 to this command, in the afternoon; but when called he went back, saying
 by way of apology that he forgot all about the matter. When they were
 alone, Marcus inquired, very pleasantly—

 “Well, Harrison, how did you enjoy yourself, Saturday afternoon?”

 “First-rate—didn’t you?” coolly replied the boy.

 “Do you think you enjoyed the hunt as much as you would if you hadn’t
 gone off at recess, contrary to my express orders?” inquired Marcus.

 “Well, yes, I don’t see as that made any difference,” replied Harrison,
 looking as calm and unconcerned as though he were discussing the point
 with some comrade.

 “I see you are inclined to be frank,” continued Marcus. “I am glad of
 that—I like frank, open dealing in everybody, boys as well as men.
 Don’t you?”

 “Why, yes, I do,” replied the boy.

 “And are you willing to be perfectly frank with me, if I will be so
 with you, in talking over matters now?” inquired Marcus.

 “Well, I can’t stop long—I agreed to go somewhere, after school,”
 replied Harrison.

 “But we must attend to this business first,” replied Marcus, in a
 decided tone. “Now if you say you will deal frankly with me, I will
 proceed at once.”

 “Well, I will,” said Harrison.

 “Then I will be equally frank with you, and so we shall have a fair
 understanding of each other,” replied Marcus. “I have noticed for
 several weeks, especially since Mr. Upton has been sick, that you were
 inclined to be disrespectful towards me, and to annoy me and the school
 by certain little improprieties that it was difficult to prove wilful,
 though they certainly seemed to be so. As I know of no reason why you
 should wish to trouble me—for I believe I have always treated you
 kindly—I have taken as charitable a view of this as I could. I have
 tried to think that you did not mean any harm, but were only a little
 odd in your ways. But when you set my authority at defiance so coolly,
 last Saturday, I saw that something more serious than oddity was the
 matter. And that something has got to be met, promptly and decidedly.
 Now there are two ways of meeting such a spirit in a scholar. One way
 is, to inflict a severe and disgraceful punishment, which will serve as
 a warning to the other pupils, if it does not reform the guilty one.
 The other way is, to win him from his error by mild and kind means.

 “Now, Harrison, you know very well which of these systems of government
 we have adopted here. You have seen no rod or ruler, since you came
 here, and I hope you will not, if you stay through the term. But that
 is by no means certain. Sometimes, when mild measures fail, Mr. Upton
 adopts stern ones; but he always tries kindness first. There is only
 one other resort, in desperate cases, and that is, to expel the
 offender. Now, if I have been rightly informed, the harsh system had
 been pretty faithfully tried upon you before you came here, had it
 not?”

 “I should think it had—but it didn’t do any good,” replied Harrison.

 “And now kindness has been tried, and _that_ has done no good,” added
 Marcus, with a serious look. “What more can be done? Do you think that
 you ought to be privileged to do as you please, while all the other
 scholars are required to be obedient, and orderly, and respectful? You
 said you would be frank with me; now will you answer me that question,
 honestly?”

 “I suppose not,” replied Harrison, rather reluctantly.

 “Very well, now I wish you to answer another question, as frankly as
 you did that,” continued Marcus. “Do you think I ought to be expected
 to sacrifice my feelings, and strength, and time, in trying harsh
 measures upon a boy, when the experiment has already been made by
 others, and, as he admits, without any good result?”

 “No, sir,” replied the boy, in a more respectful tone than usual.

 “Neither do I,” said Marcus. “Then if kind measures fail, as they have
 in your case, so far, expulsion is the only remedy left; and that, of
 itself, is a very harsh, and painful, and disgraceful punishment. I
 can’t bear to think of it. It is casting the boy out from influences
 that might save him, into a world of new temptations and dangers. If he
 were the only one involved, I would put up with a great many
 provocations, before I would sentence a boy to such a fate as that. But
 the interests of the school sometimes require that a scholar should be
 expelled, and then the teacher must do his duty, however painful it may
 be. In such a case, the teacher and the boy are not the only sufferers.
 The parents and friends of the offender often suffer even worse than he
 does. I hear, Harrison, that you have an excellent mother. Is it so?”

 “Yes, sir,” replied the boy.

 “I have been told,” continued Marcus, “that she is a very kind, gentle,
 and sensitive woman. I hear, also, that you appear to think a great
 deal of her, and I hope the report is true, for a _good_ mother is a
 blessing for which we can never be too grateful.”

 The expression of the boy’s face, at this mention of his mother,
 indicated that the report was not without foundation.

 “Now,” continued Marcus, “how would your mother feel, if you should go
 home, and tell her that you had been expelled from the academy, for
 misconduct? Would it not almost break her heart? For her sake, as well
 as yours, I hope we shall not have to fall back upon that last resort.
 But as I promised to be frank with you, I must tell you, in all
 sincerity, that the course you have been pursuing will certainly lead
 to expulsion, if not abandoned. I do not say this to frighten you, but
 I am honestly pointing out to you a _real_ danger, and one that you
 will assuredly encounter very soon, if you do not take warning. You
 have been quite frank with me, so far, now I want to know if you will
 give me a plain and honest answer to one more question?”

 “I will,” replied Harrison.

 “I am going to ask the question now,” continued Marcus, “but you need
 not answer it to-night. I would rather that you should take time to
 think it over, and let me know your decision to-morrow. The question is
 this—whether you intend to keep on in your old habits, as though
 nothing had happened, or will you try to correct the faults I have
 mentioned? You will please to take notice that the question refers only
 to your _intentions_. I do not ask you to promise never to disobey or
 be disrespectful again; but if you have any intention, or even the
 slightest wish, to reform these habits, I want you to say so, and I
 will help you all I can to accomplish the work. On the other hand, if
 you really prefer to do as you have been doing, I want you to tell me
 that, just as candidly. Remember you promised to be frank. You can go,
 now, and to-morrow you may tell me your decision.”

 Harrison’s bearing was somewhat more subdued and respectful than usual,
 when he left Marcus. The same peculiarity was apparent in his conduct
 the next day, in school. When school was dismissed at noon, Harrison
 went of his own accord to the teacher’s desk, and said:—

 “Mr. Page, I’ve thought over that matter that we talked about
 yesterday, and I’ve made up my mind to try to do better, hereafter.”

 “I am very glad to hear you say so, Harrison,” replied Marcus, grasping
 the boy kindly by the hand. “If that is your intention, I have no doubt
 we shall get along pleasantly enough after this.”

 “I’m sorry I went off, Saturday, and I wont do such a thing again,”
 added Harrison.

 “That was quite a serious act of disobedience,” replied Marcus,
 “although I have refrained from saying much about it directly, thus
 far. If I should conclude that the offence required some kind of
 punishment, notwithstanding this confession, do you feel as though you
 could submit to it cheerfully?”

 “Yes, sir, I think I could,” replied Harrison, rather hesitatingly.

 “I suppose the fact that you ran away is known to all the scholars,”
 observed Marcus. “Now should you be willing to make the apology as
 publicly as the offence?”

 This was a pretty severe test for Harrison. Remembering the braggadocio
 with which he had alluded to his offence, only the day before, in the
 presence of many of his school-mates, it was hard to say he was willing
 to stand up before them all, and humbly acknowledge his fault.

 “Give me a frank answer, that is all I ask,” added Marcus, as he
 perceived the conflict in his pupil’s mind.

 “Well, I suppose I ought to confess in public, and I must do it, if you
 say so, but it will come dreadful hard,” replied the boy, who seemed
 anxious and perplexed.

 “Yes, I suppose it would be a very disagreeable duty,” said Marcus;
 “and on the whole, I think I will not ask it of you. The scholars know
 that I have taken private notice of the offence, and perhaps that will
 answer every purpose. If you will show to them a better example
 hereafter, that is all I will require, this time. The past shall all be
 forgiven and forgotten.”

 The boy looked pleased and grateful, and before retiring, repeated his
 promise of amendment. This promise he kept. His feelings towards Marcus
 seemed to have undergone an entire change. True, every fault in his
 character and conduct was not corrected at once; but as there seemed to
 be a prevailing disposition in him to conform to the rules of the
 school, united with a sincere respect for his teacher, Marcus looked
 upon his errors as leniently as possible, and endeavored to encourage
 him in his good work by every proper method.

 The next Monday, Mr. Upton resumed his post, and complimented Marcus
 very highly on finding the academy in so prosperous a state.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XV.

                           ABOUT SAM HAPLEY.


 MR. HAPLEY, the father of Jessie and Sam, and the near neighbor of the
 Pages, seemed to be growing more slack than ever, this winter. Fields
 of corn-stalks were still standing on his farm, although it was well
 advanced in December, he having neglected to cut them in the fall, for
 his cattle. It was even reported that a good part of his potatoes were
 frozen into the ground, as he had delayed digging them until it was too
 late. His family and stock were not so well provided for that they
 could afford thus to throw away the produce of the farm. Plenty by no
 means reigned in the house, and as to the barn, its inmates bore
 unmistakable testimony that poor hay, with few roots and less grain,
 would not keep cattle in good condition.

 One morning, after the last stick of cut wood had been consumed, and a
 rod or more of the fence, also, had been used to “keep the pot
 boiling,” Mr. Hapley mustered sufficient resolution to go up to the
 wood-lot, with his team, after another load. He got a neighbor to go
 with him, for although one might have supposed Sam was large enough to
 chop wood, Mr. Hapley always said he was “good for nothing to work,”
 and Sam was very careful never to give him occasion to alter his
 opinion.

 In all such expeditions as this, there were two things that always
 accompanied Mr. Hapley. These were, a pipe and a jug. With something to
 smoke, and something to drink, he considered himself amply fortified
 against all the demands of appetite, for half a day at least. The young
 man who accompanied him on this occasion, was not at all averse to an
 occasional mug of cider, or whiskey, or, indeed to any other beverage
 that could claim kindred to these. So an extra-sized jug, nearly full
 of old cider of the hardest and sourest kind, was put on the sled, and
 tied to one of the stakes, to keep it in place.

 “Now, you children,” said Mr. Hapley, as he was about starting, “you
 behave yourselves, all on you. You Sam, I want you to fodder them cows
 this noon, if I don’t get home. And mother,” he added, addressing his
 wife, “don’t let Benny play out in the wet, he’s got such a cold.”

[Illustration]

 With these admonitions, the father departed. Unfortunately, there was
 no one to admonish him to behave himself, though perhaps he needed such
 a caution as much as his children. Arrived at the wood-lot, he and his
 assistant took a full “swig” from the jug, and then commenced work. By
 the time Mr. Hapley had felled one tree, he felt the need of another
 draught of cider; and seating himself on the prostrate trunk, he again
 tipped the jug, and then lighting his pipe, resigned himself to quiet
 contemplation. The sturdy strokes of his more industrious companion, if
 they reproached him, did not arouse him from his lazy lethargy for half
 an hour, and then he returned to his work only for a short time, soon
 seeking refreshment again from the jug and pipe. It was past noon when
 the sled was loaded up with green wood, and by this time, Mr. Hapley
 was in no amiable mood, the soothing influence of the pipe not having
 been equal to the exciting effects of the cider, which always made him
 as sour as itself. His companion, too, was not quite so cheery as when
 he came into the woods. He thought it rather hard fare, to do more than
 three-fourths of the work, and drink less than one-fourth of the cider.
 So they mounted the load, and drove home, scarcely speaking to each
 other on the way.

 “My patience!” exclaimed Mrs. Hapley, as the team entered the yard;
 “have you brought me a load of green stuff, at this time of year, and
 not a stick of dry wood about the premises? What _shall_ I do!”

 “Do? why, you can stick it up in the chimney corner, and dry it,”
 replied Mr. Hapley, quite unconcerned.

 “Well,” added his wife, with a sigh, “if I had only known you had no
 wood seasoning up in the lot, I’d have gone and cut some myself, sooner
 than try to burn that stuff.”

 “You’re always a telling what _you’d_ do,” replied Mr. Hapley; “now I
 wish you’d go and do it, just once, and say nothin’ about it. Plague on
 ’t! how is a feller going to chop wood, when he’s got the rheumatis’ so
 he can’t stand up? It seems as though women hadn’t no consideration
 about some things.”

 Mrs. Hapley always refrained from bandying words with her husband, when
 he was in an irritable mood, and she made no further reply. He took the
 horses from the team, (for, according to his slack system, it was time
 enough to unload the wood, when the sled was needed again,) and led
 them into the barn. In a few moments he returned, and inquired, in a
 stern tone:—

 “Who fed them cows, this noon?”

 “I did,” replied Mrs. Hapley. “Sam wasn’t here, at noon, and so I took
 care of them.”

 “Just the way with that plaguy Sam,” added Mr. Hapley. “He’s never
 about when anything’s to be done. Here, Sam! Sam!” he called at the top
 of his voice; but Sam did not respond, and Mr. Hapley continued, “What
 did you give ’em such a mess of hay for? They’ve wasted more’n half of
 it, and got it all over the barn. I don’t see what you was thinking of.
 We can’t afford to litter the critters with hay, when it’s as skerce as
 ’tis now.”

 “I don’t think I gave them too much,” replied Mrs. Hapley. “The fact
 is, they don’t like the hay, and they wont eat it up clean.”

 “Where’s Benny?” inquired Mr. Hapley, suddenly noticing that his
 youngest boy was absent.

 “He’s gone out to play,” replied his wife.

 “I told you not to let him go out in the slosh—he’ll be sick ag’in, you
 see if he aint,” said Mr. Hapley.

 “He’s dressed warmly, and got his thick boots on,” replied Mrs. Hapley.
 “It is so pleasant that I thought it would do him good to be out a
 little while in the air.”

 Mr. Hapley withdrew to the barn, and was feeding his horses, when a
 loud scream from Benny startled him. Running to a window in the back of
 the barn, he saw the cause of the outcry. Sam had thrown Benny down in
 the snow, and was pushing him about in it, and rubbing it into his face
 and neck. They were by the roadside, a few rods from the barn. Mr.
 Hapley flew to the door, and called to Sam, but Benny’s outcry drowned
 his voice. He then ran towards them, but Sam had finished the assault,
 concluding with a few vigorous kicks, before he saw his father
 approaching. Mr. Hapley was so enraged at what he had witnessed, that
 he could hardly listen to a word of explanation. Benjamin, a lad of
 nine years, was his youngest child, and was supposed by the rest of the
 family to be the father’s favorite. He was not at this time in robust
 health, which added to Mr. Hapley’s excitement, on seeing him abused by
 Sam. The origin of the assault, which Mr. H. did not stop to
 investigate fully, was this. Benny, seeing his brother coming up the
 road, hid himself behind a stone wall, until he had passed, and then
 playfully threw a soft snow-ball at him, which chanced to hit him on
 the head, though not with much force. Sam instantly started for his
 little brother, who fled; but overtaking him, the unfeeling boy pitched
 him into a snow bank, and rolled him in it, then “washed his face in
 snow,” sprinkled several handfuls of the fleecy element down his neck
 and back, and finally kicked him, as has been stated.

 Mr. Hapley led the boys as far as the barn, and after telling Benny to
 go into the house, and ask his mother to take care of him, he pushed
 Sam into the barn, assuring him that _he_ would attend to him. Having
 closed the doors, he ordered Sam to take off his coat, but the
 refractory boy refused. Enraged at this, the father seized him, and a
 desperate struggle ensued, the boy resisting even to blows, and the
 anger of the other waxing fiercer every moment. But Mr. Hapley was a
 powerful man, and the result of the contest was not long in doubt. The
 coat was stripped from the boy’s back, and despite his efforts to
 escape, he soon found himself bound hand and foot to a post, utterly
 helpless. As it was useless to struggle, he now betook himself to
 yelling, which he did with such effect that all the family were soon
 drawn to the spot. But Mr. Hapley sternly ordered them all away, and
 then taking a heavy cart whip, commenced beating the boy with great
 severity. Soon the cries of the sufferer again brought the mother and
 the younger children to the spot, and despite the father’s commands,
 Mrs. Hapley and Jessie entered the barn, and with tears pleaded for
 Sam. But the father, whose natural feelings were now blunted and
 benumbed by liquor, and whose wrath was stirred almost to its lowest
 depths by the resistance Sam had offered, took no notice of the
 sympathizing intruders, but kept on with the cruel punishment.

 Marcus, who had heard the first outcry, and suspected the nature of the
 trouble, ran at once over to Mr. Hapley’s, and entered the barn just at
 this juncture. The mother and daughter both besought him to interpose
 in behalf of the unfortunate boy, whose shirt was already slightly
 stained with blood. On his entrance, however, Mr. Hapley stayed his
 hand, and, looking somewhat abashed, as Marcus thought, inquired—

 “What do you want here, sir?”

 “Don’t you think you have punished Sam about enough?” inquired Marcus,
 mildly.

 “I guess I can flog my children without any advice from you—you’d
 better go home and mind your business,” was the reply.

 “I didn’t mean any offence, Mr. Hapley,” continued Marcus, in the same
 calm tone. “I heard Sam screaming, and I thought I would run over and
 see what the matter was, for I didn’t know but somebody was abusing
 him. You would have done the same thing, if you had been in my place,
 Mr. Hapley.”

 “I wouldn’t punish him any more, now, father,” said Mrs. Hapley; “I
 think it’s time to stop when the blood runs.”

 “Are you sorry for what you did?” inquired the father, addressing Sam.

 “Yes,” replied the boy, in a surly tone.

 “Well, then, I’ll let you off, with this,” said Mr. Hapley. “But mind
 you, you wont get off so easy another time, if you don’t behave
 yourself, so look out. I’ve let you alone till you’re almost sp’ilt,
 but I’m going to turn over a new leaf with you, now. You’ve got to toe
 the mark, or else I’ll put the marks onto your back—one of the two.”

 Mr. Hapley, as he said this, unbound the boy, who, on being released,
 went into the house, followed by his mother and the children. Marcus,
 finding himself alone with the misguided father, thought it his duty to
 address a word of remonstrance to him against such punishments.

 “Mr. Hapley,” he said, “do you think this is the best way to discipline
 a boy? Isn’t it a rather harsh remedy?”

 “I wont have nothing to say to you or anybody else about that,”
 responded Mr. Hapley. “It’s nobody’s business if I choose to whip my
 boy, and I wish folks would mind their own affairs, and let me alone. I
 guess I’m old enough to know what I’m about, and if I aint, I don’t
 want your advice.”

 “I am aware no one has a right to interfere,” replied Marcus, “unless
 you _abuse_ your child. In that case I suppose you know the law will
 protect him. If you didn’t abuse Sam, just now, I think you came very
 near it.”

 “What’s that?” exclaimed Mr. Hapley. “Do you come over here to sarce
 me, in my own premises, you young upstart?”

 “I see it is of no use to talk with you now, Mr. Hapley,” Marcus calmly
 replied, and then withdrew.

 The next morning, Jessie, with tears in her eyes, informed Marcus that
 her brother was missing. He had evidently gone off in the night,
 intending to seek his fortune elsewhere, for he had taken a change of
 clothing. Before starting for the academy, Marcus called on the Hapleys
 to see if he could be of any service to them, in their new trouble.

 “No,” said Mr. Hapley, gruffly, “we aint a going to send after that
 boy, nor no such thing. If he’s a mind to run away, let him run, that’s
 all. I’ll warrant he’ll get enough of it, and be glad to get home
 ag’in, before a month’s out.”

 Mrs. Hapley looked anxious, and the children sad, though the father
 seemed quite unconcerned. No steps were taken to bring back the
 fugitive, or even to ascertain in what direction he had gone, and
 nothing was heard from him, until about a week after, when he suddenly
 made his appearance one evening. He was in a sorry plight, his feet
 being somewhat frosted, his clothes having suffered from rough usage,
 and he being very tired and hungry. His parents received him with
 unexpected kindness, and even Mr. Hapley himself was more pleased at
 his return than he was willing to confess. Sam, however, did not seem
 inclined to say much about his adventures, during his week’s absence,
 and the curiosity of the family, on that point, was far from satisfied.

 Two or three days after Sam’s return, a couple of strangers drove up to
 the door, and having found Sam, told him he was their prisoner, at the
 same time showing him a writ authorizing his arrest. They also informed
 Mr. Hapley that they were empowered to search the house for stolen
 property; adding that a robbery had been committed in a town about ten
 miles distant, and there was reason to suspect his son had some
 connection with it. The shock of this intelligence so affected Mrs.
 Hapley, that she fainted. While her husband was using means for her
 recovery, the officers put a pair of hand-cuffs upon Sam’s wrists, to
 prevent his escape, and then took him up into his chamber, where they
 commenced the search. There was an old bureau in the room, which they
 examined very thoroughly. They also scrutinized the boy’s clothing,
 peered into the fire-place and up the chimney, looked for loose boards
 in the flooring, and examined holes in the plastering, but all to no
 purpose. They then overhauled the bed, and soon drew out from among the
 feathers a package which was found to contain a breast-pin, several
 silver spoons, and a watch. With this they announced themselves as
 satisfied, and soon started off with their prisoner.

 The news of Sam’s arrest spread through the village like wild-fire.
 Marcus heard of it as soon as he was out of school, in the afternoon.
 On the way home, he overtook Jessie and Kate, who, full of spirits,
 wondered that Marcus should be so sober. The sad news was not broken to
 Jessie until she entered her home, where she found her father upon the
 floor, drunk, and her mother sick in her bed, while Benny was silently
 weeping, as though his heart were breaking. Henry alone was able to
 explain to her what had happened. The poor girl could hardly help
 sinking to the floor, as Henry related his story; but feeling that this
 was no time to give way to her emotions, she controlled her nerves with
 admirable coolness, and soon partly forgot her own sorrow, in her
 efforts to relieve the others. She prepared some medicine for her
 mother; put a pillow under her father’s head, having tried in vain to
 assist him to a chair; spread an old coat over him, to prevent his
 taking cold; spoke a few words of comfort to Benny; and then proceeded
 to get supper.

 It was soon whispered about town that Mr. Hapley, since the arrest of
 his son, had abandoned himself to his cups worse than ever. Several of
 his neighbors kindly remonstrated with him against the course he was
 pursuing, and urged him to take some steps in aid of his misguided boy;
 but their efforts were all in vain. Although Sam’s trial was to come on
 in a few days, none of his friends had been near him, to offer him
 advice or assistance. In this extremity, Mrs. Hapley appealed to Marcus
 for assistance, who readily consented to do all he could in behalf of
 the boy. The next day he drove over to the town where Sam was awaiting
 his trial, accompanied by Mrs. Hapley. They found the boy alone in a
 cell, looking very dejected. He burst into tears, on seeing his mother,
 and for several minutes neither of them could speak. Marcus, in a kind
 tone, told him they had come to see if they could do anything for him,
 and urged him to tell them frankly all about the stolen property found
 in his room, that they might the better know how to proceed. Sam at
 once expressed his willingness to do so, and then related his
 adventures, from the time he left home until his return. His story, in
 substance, was as follows.

 He left home on a pleasant moonlight night, as soon as he was satisfied
 all the family were asleep. He walked seven or eight miles, and then
 forced an entrance into a barn, where he slept the rest of the night.
 The family gave him a breakfast, the next morning, and he then resumed
 his journey. In the course of the forenoon he reached a large town,
 where he concluded to stop and see what he could do; for he had but
 half a dollar in his pocket, and began to feel a little uneasy. There
 was a large tavern in the village, which was much frequented by
 sleighing parties, and for a day or two Sam managed to pick up a little
 change, by holding horses, and performing other small chores for the
 company. He was allowed to sleep in the barn, and got his meals at a
 low “saloon” near by. The associates among whom he was thus thrown,
 were not of the best kind, and one of them, a young man several years
 older than himself, was an offender against the law, having served out
 two or three sentences in jails. His name was Mack. There was something
 in the face, the conversation, or the peculiar circumstances of Sam,
 that led him to propose to the boy a sort of partnership in crime; and
 as he set forth the gains to be derived from such a course in the
 brightest colors, the boy’s easy virtue made but slight resistance, and
 without much persuasion, he agreed to the proposition.

[Illustration]

 The next night after the matter had been settled, Sam made his first
 attempt as a burglar, in connection with Mack. They chose for the scene
 of operations a large and substantial house, occupied by a widow of
 reputed wealth, and her family of young children. The moon shone
 bright, but as the house was in a retired neighborhood, they thought
 they could elude detection. Mack entered the dwelling first, by a
 second story window, standing upon Sam’s broad shoulders to reach the
 sash, which proved not to be fastened down. He then descended to the
 basement, and opened the doors, that they might easily escape in case
 of alarm. Sam now entered, and the two ransacked the lower part of the
 house, helping themselves to a quantity of silver ware, some jewelry,
 two watches, and a good supper. After securing a few articles of value,
 Sam was in haste to escape, but his companion seemed in no hurry, and
 went about the house as leisurely as though he were at home. This free
 and easy bearing doubtless seemed quite professional to Mack, but he
 happened to carry it a little too far for his own safety. Sam,
 impatient of his dilatory movements, was awaiting him outside, when he
 heard a movement in the house which led him to take flight. It seemed
 the widow had been awakened by the burglars, and, arousing her oldest
 son, a brave boy of fourteen, they descended as noiselessly as
 possible. Mack had just before lighted a lamp, and gone down into the
 cellar, to see if he could find a bottle of wine, leaving his plunder
 on the kitchen table. Suddenly the cellar door was closed and locked
 upon him, and he heard strange voices, one of which, the voice of a
 boy, assured him that he had a loaded rifle, and would put a bullet
 through him “in less than no time,” if he attempted to get away. The
 burglar tried to escape by a window, but the rifle was quickly pointed
 at him, outside, and he gave up the attempt. In a few moments help
 arrived, and he was secured. As all the stolen property was not found,
 it was suspected that he had an accomplice, though he refused to give
 any information on that point.

 Sam left the village as speedily as possible, directing his steps
 towards a town where he had never been before. After wandering about
 two days, and suffering much from fatigue, cold, hunger, and anxiety,
 he at length reached home, as we have seen. The sudden and unexplained
 disappearance of Sam, from the village tavern, together with the fact
 that he had been seen with Mack several times on the evening of the
 burglary, directed suspicion towards him, and finally led to his
 arrest.

 After hearing Sam’s story, Marcus expressed the opinion that he had
 better plead guilty, and frankly own up his offence to the officers of
 justice. This advice was accepted by Sam and his mother. Marcus and
 Mrs. Hapley then secured a lawyer to appear on behalf of the boy at the
 trial; and they also had an interview with the officer who conducted
 the prosecution, explaining to him the circumstances of the case, and
 soliciting his influence in favor of the prisoner, on the ground that
 this was his first offence, and that he had been led astray by a
 hardened offender.

 Sam was brought before the court a day or two after, and pleaded guilty
 to the charge of burglary. His counsel urged several reasons for a
 light sentence, and the prosecuting attorney said that, under the
 circumstances, he should not oppose the request. The judge, however,
 thought it was not exactly a case for mercy. The prisoner, he said, was
 a runaway from home. He had voluntarily made himself a vagrant, and had
 shown his willingness to resort to crime, to get a living. No attempt
 had been made to prove a good character for him, and he doubted whether
 such an attempt could succeed. He concluded by sentencing the boy to
 the county jail for four months.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XVI.

                        MERRY DAYS AND SAD ONES.


 “I DON’T care, I got the start of all of you,” said Ronald, as the
 family were discussing over the breakfast table, Christmas morning, the
 question who was the first to wish the others “a merry Christmas.” “I
 heard the clock strike four, and I jumped right out of bed, and ran
 into the entry, and wished you all a merry Christmas.”

 “Well, that wasn’t fair—I was asleep, and didn’t hear you,” said Kate.

 “So was I asleep,” “And I,” “And I,” added one and another.

 “That makes no difference, so long as _I_ was awake,” replied Ronald.

 “Ronald,” said Marcus, “reminds me of a fellow I have either heard or
 dreamed about, who bragged that he got up and wished all the kingdoms
 of the earth a happy new year at one lick. For my part, if any body has
 got any good wishes for me, I should prefer to be informed of it when I
 am awake. And I don’t care much about being lumped in with all the
 kingdoms of the earth, either.”

 “Well, sir, I wish you a merry Christmas, _all to yourself_,—I believe
 you are awake now,” said Ronald, with a sly chuckle.

 “There, I may as well give in—I wont try to say anything more,” added
 Marcus, as the laugh went round the table at his expense.

 After breakfast no little curiosity was excited by a package which
 Marcus handed to Oscar. It was received by Marcus the day before, by
 express, with a note requesting him to deliver it to Oscar, Christmas
 morning. After removing sundry cords and wrappers, the contents stood
 disclosed. There was a fine pair of skates, from his father; a gold
 pen, from his mother; a pair of wrought slippers, from Alice, his
 oldest sister; a beautiful book-mark from Ella, another sister; a book
 from his brother Ralph; and a package of confectionery from George, his
 youngest brother. Brief notes accompanied several of the presents.
 There were also two letters in the package, the handwriting of one of
 which, Oscar did not recognize. It proved to be from a young
 acquaintance in Boston named William Davenport, who went by the
 familiar name of “Whistler” among his comrades. It was written in
 fulfilment of a promise he had made, before Oscar left Boston. The
 other letter was from his mother, and, like all similar favors from
 that source, was full, margin and all, of kind words, good advice, and
 family news. It contained an item of intelligence, however, that cast
 something of a damper over the spirits of Oscar. It was as follows:—

     “The brig Susan has been heard from at last. You know we have
     been looking for her ever since October. She foundered in a
     gale in September, off the South American coast, and the men
     took to the boats. One of the boats was picked up, after
     floating about for several days, and the men in it were saved,
     after enduring great hardships, and have arrived here. Nothing
     has been heard of the other boat, on board which was poor
     Jerry. His parents are much distressed about him; but your
     father thinks he may be safe yet, as the boat may have reached
     the shore, or may have fallen in with some outward-bound
     vessel. Let us hope for the best, as long as we can.”

 The “poor Jerry” referred to, was a cousin to Oscar. The two boys had
 once been very intimate, somewhat to the damage of Jerry’s character;
 and it was in a great measure owing to this intimacy that Jerry
 absconded from his home, in Brookdale, about a year previous to this
 time, and shipped for a voyage around Cape Horn.

 There was to be a children’s Christmas party at the town hall, in the
 evening, and the presents designed for the other members of the family
 were reserved to grace the “tree” that was to be one of the chief
 attractions of the occasion. Marcus and the children constituted a part
 of the committee of arrangements for the festival, and were occupied
 with their duties through a good part of the day. At an early hour in
 the evening, the whole family proceeded to the town hall, where they
 found the chief portion of the town’s population assembled, especially
 the younger part. The hall, with its evergreen decorations, its
 numerous lights, and its sea of happy faces, presented an enlivening
 spectacle. At the hour appointed for opening the exercises, the
 clergyman of the village ascended the platform, and after a few
 remarks, invoked a blessing upon those assembled. Then came an
 introductory declamation, by one of the academy boys, followed by the
 recitation of an appropriate poem by a fair-haired little girl of six
 summers. Next appeared upon the platform our two young friends Ronald
 and Otis, who confronted each other in blank silence a minute or two,
 and then retreated to the ante-room, without exchanging a word. Some of
 the audience were in painful suspense, during this scene, supposing it
 to be a failure; while others began to whisper that it was a tableau,
 and not a dialogue, though they were puzzled to tell what it
 represented, or why the figures should walk to and from the stage, in
 sight of the audience.

 A curtain before the platform now fell, and after a few minutes was
 again raised, disclosing to the audience a charming tableau of
 Minnehaha, the Indian maid. The two boys who had acted in the mute
 scene, just before, now re-appeared, and went through very creditably
 with a dialogue, Ronald, the leading speaker, having suddenly forgotten
 his part, on his first appearance. Then followed several songs,
 declamations and tableaux, after which the main attraction of the
 evening was introduced, by the raising of the curtain which concealed
 the Christmas tree from view. A loud and merry shout arose from the
 young folks, which was prolonged for a minute or two, and followed by
 general expressions of admiration from all present. There stood the
 tree, a tall, straight and symmetrical evergreen, illuminated with
 candles, arrayed among its branches, and adorned with artificial
 icicles and snow flakes. The fruits, however, with which every bough
 and twig seemed bending, were the most interesting objects of
 contemplation to the hundred pairs of youthful eyes fixed earnestly
 upon the tree. Many of these fruits, it is true, were hidden from
 sight, by a rind of paper, cloth or wood; but imagination readily
 supplied all deficiencies of this kind, and the little eyes gazed, and
 sparkled, and longed, just as though they pierced through all the outer
 coverings that concealed the tempting clusters which hung upon the
 boughs.

 After a few moments, Santa Claus suddenly appeared, and walking across
 the platform, took his station by the side of the tree, amid rapturous
 applause from the company. He appeared to be a venerable personage,
 with a flowing gray beard, and was completely encased in furs, from top
 to toe—fur boots, fur leggings, fur tunic, fur mittens, and a fur cap
 which enveloped all of his head except the face. After silence had been
 secured, he spoke, in tones which seemed very soft and gentle to
 proceed from so rough and ancient a personage, and which not a few of
 the audience declared “sounded just like the voice of Marcus Page.” He
 said he had brought “heaps” of presents, and had almost broken his back
 with the effort. He hoped he had brought something for everybody; but
 if he had not, he trusted they would not blame him, for he had done the
 best he could. He requested the children not to crowd around the tree,
 and invited the recipients to walk up one by one as their names were
 called. He then commenced gathering the fruit, to each of which was
 attached the name of the person it was intended for. And now the sport
 began in earnest. What a queer assortment of articles to gather from
 one tree! There were gold rings, breastpins, lockets, pencils, and
 pens; silver spoons and thimbles; work-boxes, wooden dogs, and stuffed
 rabbits; books, fancy boxes, and popped corn; sleds, skates, and
 mittens; pin-cushions, needle-books, and bags of candy; dolls, pocket
 knives and cologne bottles. But time and patience would fail to mention
 half the things that good Santa Claus handed down to the company. It
 was an hour before the distribution was finished. The company then
 adjourned to the room below, where they found an abundance of simple
 country refreshments provided. A speech or two followed, and with three
 cheers for Christmas day, and three more for Santa Claus, the
 entertainment ended.

 There was the usual exchange of good wishes and little keep-sakes, on
 New Year’s morning, but the day was not otherwise distinguished as a
 festival, and the schools kept, and business went on, as on other days.
 As the family were seated at the breakfast table, a light rap upon the
 door was heard, and on answering the call, Jessie Hapley, pale and
 agitated, was found upon the steps.

 “Mrs. Page,” she said, as soon as that lady appeared, “mother wants to
 know if you will come right over—she is afraid Benny is dying;” and the
 poor girl burst into tears as she delivered the message.

 “Benny dying!” exclaimed Mrs. Page, “why, I had no idea he was so sick
 as that—how long has he been so?”

 “He grew worse very fast last night,” replied Jessie. “Henry has gone
 for the doctor, and mother thought perhaps you could tell what to do,
 till he comes.”

 “Yes, I will go over immediately,” replied Mrs. Page, and she went for
 her bonnet and shawl, and a minute after started by the shortest cut
 across the fields for the house of sorrow.

 Marcus would gladly have accompanied his mother, but for fear that his
 presence at such a time might be regarded an intrusion. Benny was one
 of a class of little boys which Marcus had instructed in the Sabbath
 school for some two years. Partly from the gentle, winning disposition
 of the child, and partly on account of the unfavorable influences to
 which he was exposed at home, Marcus felt an especial interest in him,
 and had watched his decline with no little solicitude. For several
 months past, Benny had been able to attend the Sabbath school only
 occasionally; but every Sunday his young teacher carried or sent to him
 an attractive book from the library, and in other ways manifested his
 continued interest in the sick scholar. It was with a heavy heart,
 therefore, that Marcus heard his mother summoned to Benny’s death-bed,
 on this pleasant New Year’s morning. An hour later, on his way to the
 academy, he stopped at Mr. Hapley’s door, to inquire after the patient,
 and was told that the doctor was still with him, and that the result of
 his efforts in behalf of the boy was yet uncertain.

 In spite of the pleasant associations of the day, and the kindly
 greetings with which his scholars met him, a cloud hung over the
 spirits of Marcus, which he was unable to dispel. One incident
 occurred, however, which was peculiarly grateful to his feelings. On
 entering the school-room, he was followed by Harrison Clark, who,
 taking from behind a blackboard a handsomely finished cane, handed it
 to Marcus, and, with some embarrassment in his manner, said:—

 “Mr. Page, will you accept of this as a New Year’s present? It isn’t of
 much value, but I made it myself on purpose for you.”

 “Ah, is this your work?” inquired Marcus, carefully examining the
 article, which was really well made, in every part. “Did you do it all
 yourself—head, ferule, rings and all?”

 “Yes, sir—Mr. Tucker let me use his tools, and I did the whole of the
 work myself,” replied Harrison.

 “It is certainly very creditable to you,” continued Marcus. “I don’t
 see how it could be improved. Yes, I will accept it with great
 pleasure, and thank you for it, too. Coming as a present from you, I
 shall value it ten times what it would cost to get such a cane
 made—yes, a hundred times. I shall remember your kindness with
 gratitude, perhaps after you have forgotten both me and the cane.”

 “I don’t think I shall forget you very soon—you have been so good to
 me,” replied the boy, with a look which testified to the sincerity of
 the remark.

 “And you have proved yourself worthy of my kindness, so I need not take
 much credit for that,” rejoined Marcus.

 The boy, who but lately was so bold and defiant in his bearing, blushed
 at this not unmeaning compliment, and withdrew.

 When Marcus returned home, in the afternoon, he again stopped to
 inquire after the sick boy, and was requested to go in, as Benny had
 expressed a desire to see him. He found the sufferer in a little bed
 which had been made up for him in the front room, near the fire, for he
 complained much of the cold. A faint smile lit up his face as Marcus
 entered.

 “How is he, Mrs. Hapley?” inquired Marcus, as he seated himself by the
 bedside, and took Benny’s cold hand into his own.

 “I think he is a little more comfortable than he was this morning,”
 replied Mrs. Hapley. “He has been very much distressed for breath, most
 of the day, but he seems to be better, now.”

 “I am glad to hear that, and I hope he will continue to improve,” said
 Marcus.

 Benny, whose mild, lustrous eyes had been fastened upon Marcus from the
 moment he entered the door, was too weak to speak aloud; but as he
 seemed to have something to say, Marcus bent his ear down to the boy’s
 mouth, and was addressed in a whisper as follows:—

 “I’m not going to get well, and I don’t want to. I’m going to heaven
 pretty soon. I have been longing to go, ever since I was taken sick,
 and now I know I’m almost there. I love God, and Jesus, and the angels,
 and all good folks. Do you remember what you told me about heaven, the
 other day—how many millions of good little children are there, and how
 Jesus calls them his lambs, and wipes away their tears, and takes them
 in his arms? There wont he anything to make us sorry in heaven, will
 there?”

 “No,” replied Marcus, his mind recurring to that passage of Scripture,
 “There shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither
 shall there be any more pain.”

 There was a brief interval of silence, broken only by an occasional
 half-suppressed sigh that escaped from Jessie, who was seated in a
 remote corner of the room, and by the slow and regular tread of Mr.
 Hapley, who was pacing the floor of the chamber overhead, in an agony
 of grief and remorse. Marcus afterwards learned that a few hours before
 this, when Benny was thought to be dying, he had entreated his father
 in a most affectionate and touching manner to abandon the besetting sin
 which was bringing himself and his family to ruin and disgrace. The
 strong man, after a brief but desperate struggle, promised the dying
 boy that he would abandon his cups from that hour, and would try to
 live in such a way that he might meet his little son in heaven.

 Mrs. Hapley, who had been engaged in the kitchen, now came in, with a
 bottle of hot water, to be applied to Benny’s feet; but he whispered to
 her:—

 “O, mother, I am _so_ cold! Wont you take me up in your arms, and hold
 me before the fire?”

 “Yes, dear,” replied his mother, and she took the boy gently into her
 arms, wrapped a blanket around him, and sat down before the blazing
 fire.

 This movement seemed to be too much for the boy, for he gasped for
 breath, and sank exhausted into his mother’s arms. After a few minutes
 he recovered sufficiently to speak.

 “Why, mother,” he said, “how fast it grows dark! I can’t hardly see
 anything.”

 “Jessie, ask your father to come down,” said Mrs. Hapley, trying to
 speak calmly.

 “It is dark here, but it is light _there_—O, how light!” whispered the
 dying boy.

 “Where?” inquired the mother, scarcely knowing what she asked.

 “I don’t know where it is,” replied the boy. “I saw it coming, way off,
 just now, like a bright cloud, and now it’s all around me. Why, mother,
 don’t you see it? The room is all full of it!”

 Mr. Hapley now entered the room, but, seemingly unable to endure the
 scene, silently bowed his head against the wall. Jessie and Henry also
 came in with their father.

 “I want to kiss you all,” whispered Benny to his mother, after the
 family had assembled.

 His wish was complied with, and his mother, father, Jessie, Henry and
 Marcus successively received and returned a parting kiss.

 “Now one more for Sammy—you’ll give it to him when he comes back, wont
 you, mother?” added Benny.

 The promise was made, and the kiss given. But the poor boy did not know
 that his absent brother was at that moment serving a sentence in jail
 as a convicted felon. The result of Sam’s trial had been wisely
 concealed from Benny, on account of his illness.

 The circle had sat in silence for several minutes, when Mrs. Hapley
 arose, and tenderly laying her precious charge upon the bed, kissed the
 pale brow, and said, in a low, calm tone, which almost startled
 herself:—

 “It is all over—the bitterness of death is past!”

 The spirit of the child had departed so peacefully, that she could not
 tell when he drew the last breath. But the true and loving heart had
 ceased to beat, and the mild eyes were set in death, and the last enemy
 had accomplished his work surely, though noiselessly.

 Marcus soon withdrew from the sorrowing circle, his own heart bowed in
 grief as sincere if not as deep as that of the near relatives of the
 deceased. It was the first time he had ever come into the immediate
 presence of death, and had seen, as it were, the fatal arrow wing its
 way into the living mark. It was, indeed, the first time that the grave
 had claimed one in whom he felt so deep an interest, and towards whom
 he held so near a relation; for he never could realize the death of his
 father, followed as it was by years of anxious suspense and hope
 deferred, and shrouded in impenetrable mystery up to this hour.

 Mrs. Page and her sister went over to comfort and assist the stricken
 family, while Marcus retired to his chamber, to commune with his own
 thoughts. Though far from unfaithful to his trust as a religious
 teacher, he now lamented that he had done so little for the spiritual
 improvement of the dear boy whom death had just removed from the reach
 of his influence. Never before did he realize so vividly the
 uncertainty of life, the insignificance of worldly ambition, and the
 inestimable value of those treasures which make us “rich toward God.”
 And now, at the beginning of the new year, did he kneel down and ask
 for divine aid, as he pledged himself to strive, with more fidelity
 than ever before, to kindle in the young minds around him desires after
 a higher and purer life.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             CHAPTER XVII.

                               ADVERSITY.


 THE first act of Mr. Hapley, after Benny was laid in the frozen ground,
 was one that gave new hope to the sorrowing household. At his request,
 the clergyman of the village had previously written a pledge of total
 abstinence from all intoxicating liquor, which the afflicted father
 signed upon the coffin of his boy. On returning from the funeral, he
 collected together all the alcoholic liquors in the house, consisting
 of cider, whiskey and brandy, and taking them into the yard, poured
 them out upon the snow. As Mrs. Hapley and the children gazed upon this
 novel scene, they almost forgot their bereavement, in the new hopes and
 joys which seemed now about to be bestowed upon them. And well might
 they take courage. Mr. Hapley had thus far sacredly kept his promise to
 Benny. He was very sad, and his limbs were weak and trembling, and
 there was a terrible craving and gnawing within, that neither food nor
 ordinary drink could satisfy; still he struggled manfully against the
 tempter, and friends not a few stood by, with words of encouragement
 and cheer. Indeed, with his sober and subdued air, his clean-shaven
 face, and the general tidiness of his personal appearance, he already
 seemed like a different man.

 The reformation of Mr. Hapley was much talked of among his neighbors
 and acquaintances, and very different opinions were expressed as to its
 permanence. It was generally thought that he would persevere, but there
 were some who had little faith in his good purposes. Old Mr. Todd, who
 held a mortgage on his farm, and who was regarded as quite an oracle,
 shook his head in a knowing manner, when the matter was mentioned at
 the post office, one morning.

 “I’ve known Charles Hapley,” said he, “ever since he was a boy, and I
 knew his father before him. The old man had the best farm in town, but
 the family has been gradually running down these twenty years, and it’s
 my opinion that Hapley will die a drunkard, as his father did.”

 “Now, Squire,” said an elderly and benevolent looking man, who was
 seated on the counter, “it appears to me you are a little too hard on
 Hapley. They say he’s stuck it out for more’n a week, and not touched a
 drop of anything, and that’s doing pretty well, for him. I hold that we
 all ought to encourage the poor fellow along, and not go around
 predicting that he’ll die a drunkard.”

 “So do I hold to encouraging him along,” replied Mr. Todd; “but at the
 same time I don’t believe it will do any good. He never did have any
 control over himself, from a boy, and I don’t believe he’s going to
 keep the bridle on a great while, now. You see if he does, that’s all.”

 “Guess the old man means to step in there,” said some one, as Mr. Todd
 went his way.

 “Yes, it’s plain enough what he’s after,” said another.

[Illustration]

 The speakers alluded to Mr. Todd’s taking possession of the Hapley
 farm, on account of the non-payment of his mortgage. Their conclusion
 was not a very charitable one, to be sure. Nor was it exactly kind in
 Mr. Todd to predict with so much assurance the relapse of Mr. Hapley.
 Still, it must be admitted that he had pretty strong ground for his
 opinion, though he need not have been so free to express it. The lesson
 of self-government is a hard one to learn in mature life, especially to
 a man who has for many years been tyrannized over by depraved appetites
 and passions. The position of such a man is something like that of
 Mazeppa, the young page of a Polish king, who for some offence was
 lashed, naked, to the back of a wild horse, which was then set free,
 and plunged with frightful speed through forest and plain into his
 native country, bearing his helpless and well-nigh lifeless rider with
 him. But when the appetites and passions are the ruled, and not the
 rulers, they may be compared to the same steed, tamed and docile,
 bridled and saddled, and ready to do your bidding. Mazeppa, it is true,
 had the good fortune to survive the painful ordeal, and lived to become
 a prince; but we think few would be willing to run such a race, even
 for such a prize, except upon the wild horses of their own ungovernable
 passions.

 But Mr. Todd proved a true prophet, in this instance. In less than a
 fortnight after Benny’s death, Mr. Hapley came home from the village
 one afternoon sadly intoxicated. How he happened to fall, was never
 explained to the family. He had been to the store where liquors were
 sold, on business, and probably the wretched sensation in his stomach,
 aided by the sight and smell of the tempter, the associations of the
 place, and perhaps the coaxings of the drunkard-maker, suddenly swept
 away the breastwork of good purposes he had erected. He tasted—he fell;
 and what a death-blow was that act to the hopes and peace of his poor
 wife and children! To Mrs. Hapley and Jessie, especially, it seemed as
 if the last hope had been swept away.

 The next day, when Mr. Hapley realized his situation, he was overcome
 with grief and shame. He was, moreover, discouraged. He had lost both
 his self-respect and his self-reliance. He had no longer any confidence
 in his ability to keep the pledge. Meanwhile his thirst for the deadly
 liquid was growing more insupportable for the fresh stimulus it had
 received. In this pitiable state of mind and body, he went again in the
 afternoon to the rum-shop, and attempted to drown his sorrow in a still
 deeper potation. Towards night, a severe snow-storm set in, but he did
 not return. Hour after hour did his wife sit at the fire, after the
 children had retired, listening for his return; but the wild shriek of
 the wind, as the storm waxed more furious, and the sharp rattle of the
 snow against the window panes, were the only sounds she heard. At
 length, when it was almost midnight, unable longer to bear the terrible
 suspense, she aroused Henry from his sleep, and told him to go over to
 Mrs. Page’s, and ask Marcus if he would not take a horse and go in
 search of the missing man. The boy dressed himself, and plunged into
 the huge snow-drifts. He had not proceeded far, however, before he
 began to doubt whether he should be able either to go on or to return.
 Blinded by the driving storm, transfixed by cutting blasts, the
 divisions between roads and fields quite obliterated, and floundering
 in snow up to his arm-pits, he sank exhausted, more than once, into the
 hole he had made; but with the energy of despair, he again aroused
 himself, and at length reached Mrs. Page’s door-steps.

 After considerable effort, some of the family were aroused, and Marcus,
 on learning Henry’s errand, at once prepared to go out in search of his
 father. He concluded he could get along best on horseback; and putting
 a bridle on Charley, the toughest of the two horses, he mounted him,
 and taking Henry behind him, carried him home. He then set out for the
 village, by the route Mr. Hapley had probably taken, which led him
 directly into the teeth of the storm. But he found it impossible to
 keep in the road, and his horse soon began to sink into old drifts
 newly buried, and to flounder among invisible stones, stumps, fences
 and pitfalls, until, at last, the exhausted creature seemed unable to
 proceed further. Marcus was accordingly obliged to give up the search,
 of which fact he informed Mrs. Hapley, before returning home.

 The storm moderated in the morning, but owing to the state of the
 roads, several hours elapsed before arrangements could be made to
 search for the missing man. In the course of the forenoon, he was
 found, about a quarter of a mile from the road, sitting in his sleigh,
 with the reins in his hands; but the rider and his horse were both
 frozen stiff. The horse had apparently been thrown down by a log, and
 was unable to rise without assistance, which the unfortunate rider was
 too insensible or too benumbed to render. So they perished there alone,
 and were well-nigh buried from sight before they were discovered. A jug
 of rum, found in the sleigh, furnished a sad clue to the catastrophe,
 had any been needed.

 The next day, a new grave was opened in the frozen earth, by the side
 of Benny’s, and the father was laid close by the son he had so lately
 promised to meet in heaven, and to whom he had pledged himself to a
 reformed life. O, how sad is _such_ a funeral, when hope, and honor,
 and happiness, are consigned to the tomb with the remains of the lost!
 Truly, in such a case “’tis the survivor dies.”

 It is often said that misfortunes never come singly. So, indeed, did it
 prove in the case of this family. The property left by Mr. Hapley was
 barely sufficient to pay his debts; and as most of it was mortgaged,
 very little remained for the family. Notwithstanding these reverses,
 Jessie continued to attend the academy, and was still “trying to be
 somebody,” as Abby Leonard contemptuously expressed it, though that
 young lady, it should be added, now manifested something like pity for
 the heart-stricken girl. And in spite of the drawbacks to which she had
 been subjected, Jessie maintained a high rank in her class, winning the
 respect alike of teachers and scholars, as she also did their sympathy
 and good-will. But there were few among her gay-hearted school-mates
 who could half realize the sorrows, and disappointments, and
 discouragements, that were mingled in her cup.

 On returning from school one afternoon, she found traces of weeping on
 the face of her mother, which the latter for a time declined to
 explain. The reason, however, came out after a while. On the death of
 Mr. Hapley, as he left no will, an administrator was appointed,
 according to law, to settle up his estate; that is, to take charge of
 the property, ascertain and pay the debts, and deliver the balance, if
 any, to the lawful heirs. This administrator was a kind-hearted man
 named Allen, who had always shown himself very friendly to Mrs. Hapley.
 It seemed Mr. Allen had called upon her, that afternoon, to talk about
 her husband’s affairs. There was, he said, but little more than
 sufficient property to pay off the mortgages. He advised her,
 therefore, to give up the farm, to sell all the personal property they
 could dispense with, and to find homes for herself and children
 elsewhere. The children, he said, were all old enough to support
 themselves, and she need have no one but herself to look out for.

 “Well, mother, that’s only what I expected,” said Jessie, when the
 matter was explained; “we couldn’t carry on the farm, if we should stay
 here, and we may as well go somewhere else. Grandpa said he would give
 you a home; Henry can get a chance to live with some farmer, and work
 for his board and clothes; Sam can earn his living, if he chooses to;
 and as for me, I will go to some factory town and work in a mill, and
 in a little time I shall be able to support you, as well as myself.”

 “And give up your hope of becoming a teacher?” inquired her mother.

 “Perhaps not,” replied Jessie. “I may be able to fit myself for
 teaching, even in a mill. Girls _have_ done such things, and why not
 I?”

 “But I never can let you go off alone into a factory,” said Mrs.
 Hapley. “If you go, I must go, too.”

 “Well, mother,” added Jessie, after a pause, “we’ll manage to get along
 some how, only don’t let us get discouraged. We know it is all for the
 best, and every thing will come out right in the end. When I feel sad,
 I repeat to myself that beautiful hymn Mr. Merrill read at Benny’s
 funeral—do you remember it, mother?” and Jessie recited the following
 verses:—

                  “O Father, good or evil send,
                    As seemeth best to thee,
                   And teach my stubborn soul to bend
                    In love to thy decree.

                  “Whatever come, if thou wilt bless
                    The brightness and the gloom,
                   And temper joy, and soothe distress,
                    I fear no earthly doom.

                  “Life cannot give a cureless sting,
                    Death can but crown my bliss,
                   And waft me far, on angel’s wing,
                    To perfect happiness.”

 Jessie’s uncomplaining spirit, her readiness to sacrifice her most
 cherished hopes, and her beautiful, child-like faith in God, shed a
 sweet and soothing influence upon the fainting and murmuring heart of
 the mother. A little while after, Henry came in from school, and for a
 moment looked rather sad, when he was told that the family had got to
 remove and be broken up, very soon; but he quickly recovered his good
 spirits, saying:—

 “Well, mother, I don’t care much, after all. Let Mr. Todd have the old
 farm if he wants it—it’s all run out, and we couldn’t do anything if we
 staid here. I know I can earn my living, if anybody will give me a
 chance, and one of these days I’ll have a good deal better farm than
 this—you see if I don’t! Then you and Jessie shall come and live with
 me, and we’ll all be together again.”

 Henry soon found a chance to earn his living, for Mr. Allen agreed to
 take him into his family at once, and maintain him in return for his
 services. As to Jessie, everybody said it was too bad to send her off
 to a mill, and after some little consultation, Mrs. Page proposed a
 plan by which this might be avoided. Ellen Blake, who had lived with
 the Page family for some time, was about to return home, on account of
 the sickness of her mother. It was proposed to let Jessie occupy her
 place in the family, working for her board, until she should finish
 preparing herself for a teacher. She was to attend the academy two or
 three terms more, and when not engaged in her studies, was to render
 all the assistance to Mrs. Page she could. Her mother was to clothe
 her, during this period, and it was thought that after the present term
 she could render some assistance in the lower department, and thus
 secure her own tuition free. When this plan was proposed to Jessie, she
 seemed very grateful for the kindness which prompted so liberal an
 offer, but was unwilling to accept of it, fearing she could make no
 adequate return for her board. It was only after considerable
 persuasion that she consented to the arrangement. When the matter was
 finally settled, Mrs. Hapley concluded to accept an invitation to go to
 her father’s, in a neighboring town, and make that her home until she
 could do something for her own support.


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                             CHAPTER XVIII.

                             THE DIALOGUE.


 THE winter term of the academy was now drawing towards an end, and
 preparations were already commenced for the closing examination and
 exhibition. Thus far the term had been a very harmonious and prosperous
 one, and the students, with but few exceptions, had made good progress.
 There seemed, indeed, to be an unusual ambition and rivalry in some of
 the classes. One morning, the following line from Dr. Young was found,
 written in a large hand on the most conspicuous blackboard in the
 room:—

           “PRAISE NO MAN E’ER DESERVED, WHO SOUGHT NO MORE.”

 After the usual opening exercises, Mr. Upton called attention to it,
 saying it contained a truth which every scholar would do well to
 ponder. “If we aim at excellence as students,” he added, “merely to
 secure praise, and to gain a prize, or for the love of excelling, we
 are giving ourselves up to a very mean and unworthy motive. Whatever we
 may accomplish or win, under the influence of such a base impulse, we
 shall really deserve neither praise nor reward. Can any of you explain
 what is the true and proper motive for the student?”

 There was a pause. Finding no one was likely to respond, Jessie Hapley
 arose, and said:—

 “I suppose we ought to seek knowledge because it is good, in itself,
 and because it will increase our usefulness, hereafter.”

 “That is a very good answer,” replied Mr. Upton. “There may be other
 lawful motives for studying hard, such as a wish to please our parents
 and friends, or to better our condition in the world, or to gratify our
 own tastes; but the noblest and purest motive is that which Miss Hapley
 has given—knowledge is a good thing in itself, and is a mighty power
 for good, in the hands of one who aims to serve God and bless the
 world. Compared with such a motive as this, how contemptible is the
 ambition which seeks only to shine on examination day, or to outdo a
 rival, or take the highest prize! That we may bear this in mind, we
 will let this motto remain before us until the blackboard is needed for
 other purposes.”

 Ronald was a very good declaimer, as were several others of the boys in
 his class. Marcus had given him some encouragement that he would
 prepare an original dialogue for Ronald and a few of his classmates to
 bring out at the exhibition. This half-promise he was now reminded of,
 almost daily, until at length he agreed that if Ronald would find a
 suitable plot or subject for a dialogue, he would assist him in putting
 it upon paper. This, he said, was all he could promise to do, at
 present. Ronald was at first a little discouraged by this proposal; but
 setting his wits to work, in a day or two he suggested to Marcus a plan
 of a dialogue.

 “I should think we might make something out of that,” said Marcus,
 after Ronald had explained the plan. “Now you sit down, and write out a
 rough outline of it, and then let me see it.”

 “But you said you would help me write it out,” said Ronald.

 “So I will,” replied Marcus; “but I want you to do what you can, first,
 without my help. After you have made your first draft, we will go over
 it together, and see what improvements we can make in it.”

 “But I can’t do it—I don’t know where to begin,” pleaded Ronald.

 “O, yes, you can,” replied Marcus. “Write it out just as you explained
 it to me, and that will he a good beginning.”

 Ronald at length mustered courage enough to make the attempt. His
 dialogue was of course quite imperfect, but it served as a good basis
 for Marcus to work upon. Two or three evenings were spent over it, by
 the joint authors, before it was pronounced satisfactory. When
 completed, the ideas and incidents of the piece were for the most part
 Ronald’s, while they were indebted to Marcus for much of the language
 in which they were clothed, and for the general arrangement they
 assumed.

 The following is a copy of the dialogue, as it read when completed. The
 part which Ronald decided to take was that of “_Joseph Foot_,” as his
 powers of mimicry enabled him to imitate the backwoods dialect very
 successfully:


                             HEAD AND FOOT.

     SCENE—_A school-room, with a class of ten or twelve boys,
     seated on a bench._ PRINCIPAL CHARACTERS—JOHN HEAD, _who is at
     the head of the class, and_ JOSEPH FOOT, _a wonderfully
     good-natured backwoods lad, who is at the other extremity_.

     HEAD [_rising, and holding in his hand something concealed in a
     cloth_.]—Friends and classmates! We have passed through the
     dread ordeal of another examination. Our grave and reverend
     seigniors have set in solemn inquisition over us, to their
     hearts’ content. They have weighed us, and gauged us, and
     tested us, and dissected and analyzed us, till we feel as if
     they had found out about all we know, besides some things that
     we don’t know. Our learned and venerable teacher, of whom we
     would ever speak with affection and esteem, has shown us in all
     our paces—trotting through our declamations and reading
     lessons, at a lively rate—tripping lightly among the big words
     in the dictionary—limping over verbs, and participles, and
     relatives, and copulatives—stumbling among cubes and roots, and
     the vulgarest of fractions—and floundering in a sea of
     forgotten geographical names and latitudes.

     BOY.—I say, Johnny, there’s one of your paces he didn’t put you
     through to-day—that’s the pace you exhibited when he flogged
     you round the school-room and out of the window, the other day.

     SEVERAL BOYS.—Order! order! order!

     HEAD.—I will only say to my tow-headed colleague from Misery
     Swamp, that if his insulting personalities were not entirely
     out of place on such an occasion as this, I would stop and
     settle with him on the spot [_shaking his fist_.]

     SEVERAL BOYS.—Order! order! order!

     ANOTHER BOY.—That’s right, Johnny—stand up for your honor! Form
     a ring, boys, and let ’em fight it out!

     BOYS.—Order! Shame! (_with hisses_.)

     HEAD.—Some of you called me to order—I should like to know why.

     A BOY.—It isn’t parliamentary to shake your fist at a fellow.

     HEAD.—I don’t care for that. We’ve nothing to do with
     parliamentary rules, here—we are governed by Congressional
     usage; and it’s Congressional to shake your fists, and use
     them, too, if you choose. Does anybody deny that?

     A BOY.—Enough said—go on with your speech, Johnny.

     HEAD.—Well, as I was saying, we have passed through the fiery
     trial of another examination, and the magnificent series of
     prizes—the total cost of which to our beloved teacher, as I
     learn from good authority, could not have been less than one
     dollar and twenty-five cents—have all been awarded. As is apt
     to be the case, I believe, on such occasions, some three or
     four scholars who are supposed to be brighter than their
     fellows, have carried away all the prizes, leaving absolutely
     nothing for the great body of the school. Now it has seemed to
     some of the more philanthropic members of the class that this
     is hardly fair; and to equalize in some degree this unjust
     scale of awards, it was suggested that we all unite and
     purchase an appropriate offering for the _poorest_ scholar in
     the class. Though it was my fortune, or misfortune, whichever
     you choose to regard it, to take the highest prize offered to
     this class, consisting of a touching account of a dear little
     girl who never was naughty, and died young—

     A BOY.—O my! Lend it to me, Johnny, wont you?

     SEVERAL BOYS.—And me, too! And me, too And me too!

     A BOY.—There, John Head! It’s too bad to make fun of your
     prize.

     HEAD.—I beg your pardon, I’m not making fun of it. But I wish
     folks wouldn’t interrupt me. You put me out so, that I don’t
     know as I can get through with my speech. As I was saying,
     although I took the prize myself, I go in for doing justice to
     all, and am happy to comply with the request, to present this
     testimonial of respect and affection to our esteemed friend who
     heads the other end of the class, as an Irishman might say.
     Brother Joseph Foot, will you please to rise? [_Foot rises,
     with a broad grin on his face._]

     A BOY.—Brother Foot is on his feet.

     HEAD.—My dear sir, you have been selected as the honorable
     recipient of a testimonial from your classmates, out of respect
     to the position you occupy, as the lowest round of our literary
     ladder. Your quick native intelligence probably will not demand
     that I should attempt to prove that there must be one round in
     the ladder lower than all the others; and I suppose it is
     equally evident to your enlightened mind, that if you
     constitute this round, yourself, the rest of us can be spared
     for other and higher posts of duty. We should, therefore, and I
     trust do, feel truly grateful to you for settling down so
     permanently and contentedly into this important and truly
     fundamental office, thus relieving us from all anxiety in
     regard to it. Your position may seem an humble one, but I may
     say for myself, that I have considerable respect for it. I like
     to see a person decidedly one thing or another. Let those eat
     luke-warm porridge who love it—I prefer mine either hot or
     cold. Moreover, the brighter scholars of the class are indebted
     to you not a little for their brilliancy, like the stars at
     night, which owe much of their beauty to the dark background.
     But the chief comfort and satisfaction of your life must be the
     thought that many of the greatest men the world has produced
     have been very dull and stupid boys. It is said that the bright
     boys of the school and the college are seldom heard from, when
     they become men. According to this rule, we may confidently
     hope to hear a tremendous report from yourself, one of these
     days.

     Accept, then, classmate, this slight token of good-will and
     esteem, from your friends. It is a heart tribute, whose
     expressiveness and significance will doubtless be appreciated
     by you. Accept it—and while you indulge the fond consciousness
     that you have attained to this distinction without resorting to
     selfish and unworthy means, you may also comfort yourself with
     the grateful assurance that you have escaped the sting of
     envy—that inevitable bane of the prize scholar.

     [_He uncovers the testimonial, which proves to be a cabbage,
     and stepping up to_ FOOT, _who stands grinning, proffers it to
     him_.]

     BOY.—Why don’t you take it, Jo?—it’s a big rose.

     ANOTHER BOY.—Yes, Jo, take it—he wont charge you anything for
     it.

     FOOT [_taking the cabbage_.] Wall, I guess it’s good to b’ile,
     any heow.

     HEAD.—But, my good friend, you do not propose to consign this
     token of esteem from your classmates to the dinner-pot, as
     though it were nothing but a common vegetable!

     FOOT [_surveying first the cabbage, and then_ JOHN’S _head_.]
     Wall, ’tis ’most too bad to b’ile it—sich a good likeness o’
     your top-piece. They say all flesh is grass, but I guess some
     folks’ heads don’t want much of bein’ cabbages, neow that’s a
     fact. [HEAD _walks back to his seat_.] Jest look, neow! it’s
     the very image of his head, behind, isn’t it, you?

     SEVERAL BOYS.—Good! Good! Ha, ha, ha!

     FOOT [_examining the cabbage_.] Wall, this ’ere’s a pooty good
     sort of a cabbage, any heow, and a feller hadn’t oughter make
     fun of it. But if’t belongs to the biggest fool in the class, I
     shall feel as if I was cheatin’ you, Johnny, if I keep it.

     HEAD.—O, no, Jo, don’t be too modest—there’s no doubt you have
     the best claim—the whole class voted it to you.

     FOOT.—Wall, s’posin’ I ken prove that you’re the feller that
     oughter had it?

     HEAD.—You can’t do that little thing, Johnny—if you can, I’ll
     eat the cabbage raw.

     FOOT.—I don’t take no stumps, but if yer want to bet, jest say
     so. I’ll bet this ’ere ‘token,’ as yer call it, ag’inst a
     quarter dollar, that you oughter have it.

     HEAD.—Agreed. [_Fumbles in his pockets for money._] Here’s the
     quarter.

     FOOT.—So ’tis! Wall, here’s the cabbage. Bill, you hold the
     stakes, will you? [_Bill takes them._]

     A BOY.—You’re sold, Johnny, as sure as a gun! He’s got it on to
     you!

     HEAD [_scratching his head a moment_.] Why, Jo is going to put
     down a quarter, too, isn’t he?

     FOOT.—No, he isn’t going to put down a quarter tew, nuther. I
     said I’d bet this ’ere cabbage ag’inst a quarter—didn’t I,
     boys?

     A BOY.—Yes, that is just what he said.

     HEAD.—O, I didn’t understand it so.

     FOOT.—O, wall, you ken back deown if you wanter—I knowed it
     would be jest so.

     HEAD.—But I shan’t back down, so go ahead and win the bet, if
     you can.

     FOOT.—Wont you, though? Seems to me I would, if I’s in such a
     fix.

     HEAD.—O yes, you want to back out yourself, don’t you?

     FOOT.—Wall, no, I’ve gone so far I wont back eout; but I’ll
     tell ye what, Johnny, I don’t want to git away your money, so
     I’ll give in han’somely. _The cabbage is yourn!_

     [_General laughter and clapping of hands in the class, with
     cries of_ Good! Capital! You’ve got to eat it raw, Johnny! &c.]

     FOOT.—There, now, I’ll leave it to all hands if Johnny hadn’t
     oughter have that ’ere cabbage?

     ALL.—Yes! yes! To be sure he had! All right! &c.

     FOOT.—Then I’ll take that ’ere quarter, Bill—I b’lieve I’ve won
     my bet!

     [_Renewed demonstrations of merriment through the class._]

     HEAD.—But stop, I thought you just backed out from the bet.

     FOOT.—Back eout? No such thing—I said I wouldn’t back out, any
     way. I only kinder made you think I’d give in beat, but I won
     the wager fairly, arter all, didn’t I, boys?

     SEVERAL BOYS.—Yes! yes! So he did. It’s all fair.

     FOOT.—Wall, Johnny, if I’ve won, I expect that ’ere cabbage
     b’longs to me, tew. But I don’t want to be hard on yer;
     besides, ’twixt you and I and the teown pump, I don’t ’prove of
     bettin’, for dad says it’s jest about as bad as gamblin’; so
     s’posin’ we jest swap even—I’ll keep the quarter, and you may
     have the cabbage, and eat it raw or b’iled, jest as you please.
     It’s a pooty good price for it, I expect, but what’s the use of
     a feller’s tradin’, if he can’t make something?

     HEAD.—Well, Jo, you shan’t say I’m such a fool that I don’t
     know when I’m fairly cornered. I’ll own up handsomely, that I
     went to gather wool, and came home shorn; so you may keep the
     quarter, and I’ll take the cabbage. Here, Bill, pass over the
     property. [_Bill obeys._] Boys, I’ll just say to you, that the
     next time you want to make a present to the foot of the class,
     you will have to get somebody else to be your orator. And to
     you, Jo, I will frankly confess that you have taught me a
     lesson I shall never forget. I have learned that a boy is not
     necessarily a fool, because he is at the foot of his class, and
     that excellent as book learning is, common sense and mother wit
     are sometimes more than a match for it.

     FOOT.—Thank ye, Johnny; you done that han’somely, that’s a
     fact. Neow, Jake, you jest run over to the bake-shop, and git
     as much gingerbread as this ’ere quarter will buy, and we’ll
     have a gineral treat all reound. [_Hands him the money._]


                     [_Exit_ JAKE. _Curtain falls._]



[Illustration]


------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              CHAPTER XIX.

                           CLOSE OF THE TERM.


 “WHAT is the matter, Oscar? you look quite sober,” said Mrs. Page, one
 afternoon, as Oscar came into the kitchen, on his return from school,
 and began to take off his boots.

 “I should like to know,” replied Oscar, “why I don’t get a letter from
 home. I’ve been to the post office every day for a fortnight, expecting
 one, and it hasn’t come yet.”

 “Why, it doesn’t seem a great while since you had a letter from your
 mother; how long is it?” inquired his aunt.

 “Let me see,” replied Oscar, reckoning the time in his head; “why, it
 was just six weeks last Saturday.”

 “That isn’t a very long time to wait for a letter, for a boy of your
 age, who has been away from home as much as you have,” replied Mrs.
 Page.

 “I know it,” replied Oscar; “but they agreed to write, some of them,
 every month; and besides, I believe I think more of letters from home
 than I used to.”

 “That is a good sign, if you do,” replied Mrs. Page; “only you must be
 sure and do your share of the correspondence.”

 “I have done my share,” continued Oscar. “I have written regularly
 every month, almost from the time I came here.”

 “Then I think you will hear from home soon,” replied Mrs. Page.

 “Sooner than he expects, perhaps,” said a voice from the sitting-room,
 the door of which, opening from the kitchen, stood ajar.

 “Why, mother! is that you?” cried Oscar, springing to the door; “and
 you, too, father! Why, who would have thought you were in here, hearing
 me scold about you!”

 It was even so. Oscar’s parents had arrived late in the afternoon,
 quite unexpectedly, to make a short visit, and his aunt, as he entered
 the room, conceived the idea of withholding the news from him for a few
 moments, to render his surprise the more complete. The warm greeting
 need not be described; but it may be well to add, that both his father
 and mother protested that they were not in the slightest degree
 displeased with the “scolding” they had overheard, and promised there
 should be no further occasion for it, if they could help it.

 The examination and exhibition of the academy took place, in a few
 days, and a part of the exercises were attended by Oscar’s parents. Two
 days were devoted to this business, and, as usual, they were arduous
 and anxious days to both teachers and students. The committee who
 conducted the examination, like the similar body mentioned in the
 dialogue, seemed bound to find out all that the students knew, and a
 good deal more. The scholars, however, stood their ground well, and
 when the examination was concluded, Mr. Merrill, the village clergyman,
 pronounced it one of the most satisfactory he had ever attended in that
 place. Then came the closing entertainment, or exhibition, in which
 speaking, reading compositions, singing, etc., were the order of the
 day. This, too, passed off quite successfully. The whole concluded with
 the award of prizes. Among the successful competitors were Jessie
 Hapley, who took one of the highest premiums, for superior scholarship
 and good conduct; Oscar, who received a handsome volume, for faithful
 endeavors; Harrison Clark, who was awarded a prize for general
 improvement; and Charles Wilder, who received a gift for several fine
 drawings exhibited by him.

 In the evening after the exhibition, all of the students and teachers
 of the academy assembled at the house of Mr. Upton, the preceptor, to
 make him a surprise visit. The affair was so well managed, that he knew
 nothing of the intentions of his pupils until they began to pour into
 his house. But cheerful fires were soon blazing on the hearths of the
 principal rooms, fresh lamps were lit, and a dozen or two of chairs
 were brought in from a neighbor’s, which were all the preparations
 deemed necessary for the occasion. The hours were enlivened with social
 intercourse, and games, and music, and mirth, in which all participated
 with the utmost freedom and good-will. No refreshments except apples
 were offered, one of the elder pupils having considerately informed Mr.
 Upton at the outset that “they had eaten their suppers once, and
 considered that sufficient, whether at home or abroad.”

 In the course of the evening, by some manœuvre which he did not clearly
 understand, Mr. Upton found himself suddenly surrounded by the whole
 body of his pupils, and immediately one of their number, a young lady,
 commenced addressing him in a set speech. She held in her hand an
 elegantly bound book, which, after a neat address, she handed to the
 preceptor. This book was entitled, “_The Highburg Academy Offering to
 their Beloved Friend and Preceptor, Robert Upton, A. M._” It contained
 the autograph signature of every scholar connected with the
 institution, to each of which was prefixed a verse or two of
 appropriate poetry, or a few prose sentences, original or selected,
 transcribed by the several writers. The volume also contained quite a
 number of drawings, water-color paintings, maps, etc., executed by the
 scholars.

 The origin of this unique volume was as follows: At the close of
 several of the previous terms, Mr. Upton had received gifts from his
 scholars, which were of considerable value in themselves. Fearing the
 practice of making such presents might entail too heavy a tax on some
 of the poorer scholars, or subject them to the unpleasant duty of
 declining to contribute their portion to the fund, he determined to
 discourage the custom in future. Accordingly a few weeks before the
 present term closed, he confidentially intimated his feelings to
 several of the older and more influential pupils, and requested them,
 in case a presentation should be proposed, to nip the enterprise in the
 bud. When, therefore, one and another began to speak of presenting a
 testimonial to the preceptor, they were apprized that such a proceeding
 would be contrary to his wishes. But this only set their wits to work,
 and in a little time a project was on foot, which, it was thought,
 would at once give suitable expression to the feelings of the scholars,
 and yet avoid the objection he had named to such gifts. A quantity of
 paper, of uniform size and quality, was distributed among the pupils,
 and each was requested to write something upon a sheet, and sign his
 name to it. Drawings and paintings on paper were also solicited, from
 all who received instructions in those branches, and such as were
 deemed worthy, were accepted for the collection. These materials were
 then collected and arranged, and sent to a book-binder in another town,
 who bound them together into a handsome volume, with gilt cover and
 edges. Thus, at a trifling expense, a novel, beautiful, and, to the
 teacher, a really valuable keepsake was procured.

 Mr. Upton was quite taken by surprise by the gift, and in his reply to
 the presentation address, said it was peculiarly acceptable and
 pleasing to him, because its cost to the donors had been chiefly an
 expenditure of time, care, ingenuity, and taste, rather than money. A
 gift procured at such a price, he said, was far more appropriate as an
 expression of esteem and affection, under the circumstances, than one
 purchased simply by money, no matter how costly. It was far more
 precious to him, too, as it contained something which would cause him
 to remember every one of them, as long as he lived.

 As soon as these ceremonies were concluded, one of the boys brought and
 laid upon the table a portable rosewood writing-desk, of plain but neat
 and substantial workmanship.

 “Mr. Page, will you please to step this way?” said Harrison Clark, who
 stood near the table.

 Marcus came forward, whereupon Harrison proceeded at once to address
 him, as follows:—

     “DEAR TEACHER:—It is my pleasing task to present to you this
     writing-desk, in behalf of the pupils of Highburg Academy, and
     to ask your acceptance of the same. The same considerations
     which governed us in the selection of a testimonial for our
     worthy preceptor, restrained us from procuring a more expensive
     one for yourself. It is a plain and simple article of utility
     that we offer you; but though its intrinsic worth be small, we
     trust it will possess some slight value in your eyes, as a
     memento of the affection, esteem and gratitude which we all
     entertain towards you. The ability and success with which you
     discharged the arduous duties of the preceptor for several
     weeks, during his illness, the fidelity with which you have
     labored through the term in your own sphere, the gentle and
     patient spirit with which you have borne the many short-comings
     and provocations of those of us who have been more immediately
     under your charge, and the firm yet always kind manner in which
     you have led us on in our studies, and restrained us in our
     errors, have made an impression on our hearts which time will
     not efface. Many of us hope for a continuance of this pleasant
     intercourse, in months to come; but those of our number who now
     meet you for the last time as your scholars, could not let this
     opportunity pass without a public expression of our gratitude
     and esteem. Accept, then, dear sir, this slight token of our
     affection and good will, and may the good Father of all grant
     you a long, a useful and a happy life!”

 To this Marcus responded:

     “MY YOUNG FRIENDS:—I came here to help you surprise your worthy
     preceptor, and had no idea that any such trick as this was in
     the programme. You have taken me by surprise, most completely.
     I rather feel as if you had got the advantage of me, too. You
     knew you couldn’t do this to the general, with impunity, and so
     you thought you would try it on his aid-de-camp. I shall look
     out for you, another time, you sly rogues! But I wont scold you
     very hard, this time. No, I will rather frankly confess that
     this is the proudest moment of my life. Young and inexperienced
     as I am, such a gift from my first scholars, accompanied by
     such kind and flattering words, may well make me proud. I
     accept it with gratitude, only wishing that my poor efforts
     were more worthy of such a reward. I am sure that no honors or
     gifts that may fall to my lot hereafter, can ever displace from
     my heart the memory of this token of esteem from the first
     pupils I have had the honor and pleasure to instruct. May
     Heaven reward you for your kindness, and bless you in all your
     ways!”

 The desk presented to Marcus was supplied with a variety of stationery,
 and was really a beautiful and appropriate gift. He learned, afterward,
 that Harrison, the once mischievous and troublesome scholar, had been
 foremost in procuring the testimonial. Marcus always wondered, however,
 how the matter could have been kept from him so completely, inasmuch as
 every one in the family but himself was let into the secret.

 Oscar’s parents were much pleased with the part he sustained in the
 examination and exhibition, and with the general improvement visible in
 his conduct, habits and character. They left for home, the next day,
 but not until they had expressed their warmest thanks for the interest
 manifested by Marcus and his mother and aunt in Oscar, and their
 gratification on beholding the improvement he had made under their
 care. After their departure, Oscar discovered an addition to the
 inscription in his prize book, written in the delicate hand of his
 mother. The inscription now read as follows, the first three lines
 being from the pen of Mr. Upton, and the other three by Mrs. Preston:



                    Highburgh Academy, Feb. 18, 185-.
                                ────────
                       +AWARDED TO OSCAR PRESTON+,

                         For Faithful Endeavors:

                   +THE FOUNDATION OF ALL EXCELLENCE+,

                           +AND THE PLEDGE OF+

                     +FUTURE HONOR AND USEFULNESS.+


------------------------------------------------------------------------


                      VALUABLE WORKS FOR THE YOUNG.

                      ----------------------------

YOUNG AMERICANS ABROAD; or, Vacation in Europe: the Results of a Tour
  through Great Britain, France, Holland, Belgium, Germany, and
  Switzerland. By JOHN OVERTON CHOULES, D. D., and his PUPILS. With
  Elegant Illustrations. 16mo, cloth, 75 cts.

  A highly entertaining work, embracing more real information, such as
  every one wishes to know about Europe, than any other book of travels
  ever published.

  Three intelligent lads, who knew how to use their eyes, accompanied
  their tutor on a European tour; and, from a carefully-kept journal,
  they wrote out, in a series of letters to a favorite companion in
  study, at home, their impressions of the most remarkable places _en
  route_. The pencillings are genuine and unaffected, and in all
  respects form an interesting and instructive record of
  travel.—_Sartain’s Magazine._

  One of the most instructive and delightful books of the age.—_Southern
  Lit. Gaz._

  Boys, here is a book that will suit you exactly. It is a series of
  letters from certain boys travelling in Europe to their classmates in
  this country. It will improve your knowledge and amuse you during long
  winter nights.—_Methodist Prot._

  It is worth much more than many a larger and more pretentious volume
  for giving a daguerreotype of things abroad.—_Congregationalist._

  A beautiful book for young people, unlike any thing we have ever
  seen.—_Ch. Ob._

  Most interesting book that can be put into the hands of the
  young.—_Olive Branch._

  The best book of foreign travel for youth to be found in the whole
  range of American literature.—_Buffalo Morning Express._


THE ISLAND HOME; or, the Young Castaways. By CHRISTOPHER ROMAUNT, ESQ.
  With Elegant Illustrations. 75 cts.

  The best and prettiest book for boys that we have lately seen.—_Boston
  Post._

  A stirring and unique work. It will interest the _juvenile men_
  vastly.—_Olive Br._

  Delightful narrative of the adventures of six boys who put to sea in
  an open boat, and were drifted to a desert island, where they lived in
  the manner of Robinson Crusoe.—_N. Y. Com._

  A book of great interest, and one which will be a treat to any boy.
  _Harte Circle._

  The young will pore over its pages with almost enchanted
  interest.—_Transcript._

  A modern Robinson Crusoe story, without the dreary solitude of that
  famous hero. It will amuse and instruct the young in no ordinary
  degree.—_Southern Lit. Gazette._

  A story that bids fair to rival the far-famed Robinson Crusoe. We
  become as much interested in the fate of Max, Johnny, Arthur, and
  the rest of the goodly company, as in the Swiss Family
  Robinson.—_Sartain’s Magazine._


THE AMERICAN STATESMAN; or, Illustrations of the Life and Character of
  DANIEL WEBSTER, for the Entertainment and Instruction of American
  Youth. By the REV. JOSEPH BANVARD, author of “Plymouth and the
  Pilgrims,” “Novelties of the New World,” “Romance of American
  History,” etc. With elegant Illustrations. 75c.

  ☞ A work of great interest, presenting a sketch of the most striking
  and important events which occurred in the history of the
  distinguished statesman, Daniel Webster, avoiding entirely all points
  of a _political_ character; holding up to view, for the admiration and
  emulation of American youth, only his commendable traits of character.
  It is just such a work as every American patriot would wish his
  children to read and reflect upon.

                     VALUABLE WORKS FOR THE YOUNG.

                        BY REV. HARVEY NEWCOMB.

HOW TO BE A MAN; a Book for Boys, containing Useful Hints on the
  Formation of Character. Cloth, gilt, 50 cts.

“My design in writing has been to contribute something towards forming
the character of those who are to be our future electors, legislators,
governors, judges, ministers, lawyers, and physicians,—after the best
model. It is intended for boys—or, if you please, for _young_ gentlemen,
in early youth.”—_Preface._

“How to be a Man” is an inimitable little volume. We desire that it be
widely circulated. It should be put into the hands of every youth in the
land.—_Tenn. Bap._


HOW TO BE A LADY; a Book for Girls, containing Useful Hints on the
Formation of Character. Cloth, gilt, 50 cts.

“Having daughters of his own, and having been many years employed in
writing for the young, he hopes to offer some good advice, in an
entertaining way, for girls or misses, between the ages of eight and
fifteen. His object is, to assist them in forming their characters upon
the best model; that they may become well-bred, intelligent, refined,
and good; and then they will be real _ladies_, in the highest
sense.”—_Preface._

Parents will consult the interests of their daughters, for time and
eternity, in making them acquainted with this attractive and most useful
volume.—_N. Y. Evangelist._

        _The following Notices apply to both the above Volumes._

It would be better for the next generation if every youth would “read,
learn, and inwardly digest” the contents of these volumes.—_N. Y.
Commercial._

These volumes contain much matter which is truly valuable.—_Mer.
Journal._

They contain wise and important counsels and cautions, adapted to the
young, and made entertaining by the interesting style and illustrations
of the author. They are fine mirrors, in which are reflected the
prominent lineaments of the _Christian young gentleman and young lady_.
Elegant presents for the young.—_American Pulpit._

Newcomb’s books are excellent. We are pleased to commend them.—_N. Y.
Obs._

They are books well calculated to do good.—_Phil. Ch. Chronicle._

Common-sense, practical hints on the formation of character and habits,
and are adapted to the improvement of youth.—_Mothers’ Journal._


ANECDOTES FOR BOYS; Entertaining Anecdotes and Narratives, illustrative
  of Principles and Character. 18mo, gilt, 42 cts.

ANECDOTES FOR GIRLS; Entertaining Anecdotes and Narratives, illustrative
  of Principles and Character. 18mo, gilt, 42 cts.

Interesting and Instructive, without being fictitious. The anecdotes are
many, short, and spirited, with a moral drawn from each, adapted to
every age, condition, and duty of life. We commend them to families and
schools.—_Albany Spectator._

Works of great value, for a truth or principle is sooner instilled into
the youthful heart by an anecdote, than in any other way. They are well
selected.—_Ev’g Gaz._

Nothing has a greater interest for a youthful mind than a well-told
story, and no medium of conveying moral instructions so attractive or so
successful. The influence is far more powerful when the child is assured
that they are _true_. We cannot too strongly recommend them to
parents.—_Western Continent, Baltimore._


------------------------------------------------------------------------




 ● Transcriber’s Notes:
    ○ Missing or obscured punctuation was silently corrected.
    ○ Typographical errors were silently corrected.
    ○ Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation were made consistent only
      when a predominant form was found in this book.
    ○ Text that:
      was in italics is enclosed by underscores (_italics_);
      was in bold by is enclosed by “equal” signs (=bold=)
      had extra character spacing by plus signs (+stretched+).



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MARCUS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
